title: How to find articles
description: Introduction
The Library subscribes to different databases that enable you to identify and access articles published in journals, magazines and newspapers on a specific topic or by a particular author. Most of these articles are not freely available on the Web, and cannot be found using search engines such as Google. You may access the databases from library computers or from home where you will login with your Concordia netname and password OR ID Card barcode number and Library PIN.

Learn more about scholarly journals, magazines and trade publications using this chart from Western Carolina University.

If you are looking for a specific article for which you already have a citation or reference, go to step 6 below.

Databases:

Give you access to a wider selection of quality articles published on your topic than you could find on the Web
Enable you to limit your search to scholarly or "peer-reviewed" articles (which are often required for assignments)
Provide a sophisticated search system (to help you formulate your search more precisely than you would be able to do using Google)
Finding articles with useful information is a process.

Although this guide presents a few basic steps that you may follow, keep in mind that research does not always evolve in a straight line. Often the information you find will bring new thoughts and ideas that will make you rethink your initial approach.

Step 1 - Prepare
Step 2 - Select a database
Step 3 - Decide on your search strategy
Step 4 - Evaluate results
Step 5 - Record relevant information
Step 6 - Locate articles you selected
Back to top
Step 1 - Prepare
Think about your topic:

Scholarly articles usually focus on a very specific aspect of a topic. This makes it hard to write an assignment based on the information found in articles only. Before you begin looking for articles, consult an encyclopedia, a handbook, your textbook or another book until you have a general understanding of your topic and the key concepts surrounding it.

Think about the types of articles you need and where the most likely sources might be. Ask yourself:

Who would you expect to be writing about the topic? Where would you expect relevant articles on your topic to be published? In newspapers? Magazines? Academic journals in a particular discipline?
How current do the articles need to be?
Do you just need a few articles or do you need to be very thorough?
Once you have considered these questions, you are ready to look for the databases that might meet your needs. Some databases:

Are multidisciplinary and index major journals from all subject areas - often a good starting point. An example of a multidisciplinary database is Academic Search Complete.
Attempt to be as comprehensive as possible for one subject area. For example, PsycINFO attempts to cover the world's literature in psychology.
Index scholarly journals while others index an entire range of publications. Most databases that index both academic and non-academic publications have a feature that allows you to limit your search to one type or the other.
Are updated daily, others monthly, quarterly or even less often. When choosing a database, be sure to check the time period covered and the frequency of updates.
Back to top
Step 2 - Select a database
Sometimes your topic will be well covered in one database. However, no single database includes everything on a topic, so be prepared to search through several.

Starting points:
Browse the list of databases using the Concordia Library Database Finder
Consult the Subject Guides section of the Library Web site
Read the description of each database (click on the "more info" link located next to each entry within the Concordia Library Database Finder). The description identifies subject areas included, types of publications indexed and date covered.
Ask for assistance. Librarians can help you to choose appropriate databases for your topic. Consult with them in person, or via the Libraries' online Ask a Librarian service

Step 3 - Decide on your search strategy
Identify the key concepts of your topic (often two or three main ideas that stand out).
For each concept, think of keywords and synonyms.
You may want to consider using standardized terms (often referred to as "subject headings" or "descriptors" in databases). In many databases, articles are assigned a standardized term and once you find the correct term you will be able to quickly find many articles on your topic.
This may be helpful when searching for a concept that can be expressed in more than one way. For example, to help you find information on all kinds of "beauty products" such as cosmetic, deodorants, sunscreens, toothpastes, the business database ABI/INFORM uses the phrase "health & beauty aids".
To find a list of standard subject terms used in a database, look for the thesaurus or subject terms feature.
Think about how you will combine your search terms in a way the database will understand. For example, to find articles about violence on television, in most databases, you need to combine your keywords using AND or OR
violence AND television
When you use AND between two keywords, the articles retrieved must contain both words

violence AND (television OR media)
When you use OR between two keywords, the articles retrieved must contain at least one of the words. When using AND and OR in one search statement, always use parentheses to group synonyms.


Step 4 - Evaluate results
Read the summaries (or abstracts) of the articles your search retrieved. Take time to critically analyze and evaluate those you are planning to use to see how well each contributes to the aims of your research assignment. When you browse your results, pay attention to the vocabulary used in the subject heading or descriptor fields; these will provide you with alternative or additional terms to use should you need to focus or expand your search.

Refine your search strategy
Did you retrieve too many articles?

You may need to focus your search by adding another concept (keyword):
For example, instead of violence AND television use violence AND television AND children

You may need to search within specific segments of the database, such as SUBJECT HEADINGS or COMPANY NAME, as opposed to using the default search setup, which is usually by keyword

Check the limit features of the database; perhaps you need to limit your results by date of publication, language or type of publication
Did you retrieve only a few articles?

You may need to broaden it by using more words to describe one concept:
For example, (violen* OR rage OR abusive behaviour OR battering) AND television

Note that the truncation symbol (most often an asterisk *) retrieves variations of the same word:
For example, use violen* instead of violent OR violence
Consider different databases
You may find that, although you used the right words, the articles retrieved are not appropriate for your research. For example, instead of retrieving articles that discuss the social aspects of TV violence on children, you retrieved articles on how TV violence can affect the consumer behaviour of children. Before adding additional concepts to refine your search, verify that the database you selected is appropriate for your subject area.

Reconsider your topic
Sometimes, there just is not enough information on your topic and you may want to consider changing or modifying it. Before you do so, consult with a librarian. A librarian may help you develop a more suitable strategy for your research.


Step 5 - Record relevant information
Most databases have a feature that allows you to select articles you consider important. Look for a "mark" or "add" to folder feature. You can usually print, e-mail or save your list, and/or the articles themselves.

If you just want to write down what you need to locate a specific article in the library, you will need to record the title of the journal, volume, issue, date, and page number where your article is published. It is advisable to record the name of the author and the title of the article as well.

Zotero is an online bibliographic tool that can be used to store, organize and manage citations or references that you find in the Sofia Discovery tool and in many article databases. When using databases, you can save your results and export them to a personal Zotero account that you create.

Save time and avoid frustration by using Zotero to prepare bibliographies for your assignments according to a variety of citation styles such as APA, MLA, Chicago and many more.

Learn more about Zotero.


Step 6 - Locate articles you selected
Does the library have the article you need? Is it available online?
In many databases, you will be able to view the complete text of an article by following the link that appears together with the citation. The link may be marked as "PDF full text" or "HTML full text".

When there are no direct links to the complete article in the database, look for the "Find it! @ Concordia" button, which can save you a lot of time. "Find it! @ Concordia" will try to locate an electronic copy of the article you are looking for.

However, if you do not find a match for your article, you can check the Sofia Discovery tool, to determine if the Library has the particular volume and issue of the journal in which the article is published (either in electronic or in print format).

For example, you have the following citation:

Nogué, J., & Villanova, J. L. (2002). Spanish colonialism in Morocco and the Sociedad Geográfica de Madrid, 1876-1956. Journal of Historical Geography, 28(1), 1-20.

On the Advanced Search screen, select the Title Search Index, and enter the name of the journal. At the bottom of the Advanced Search screen, in the Format drop-down menu, select Journal/Magazine. Journals may be in print or electronic format. Make sure to look at the subscription years to see if they cover the years for which your article was published.

If you have a citation for an article, another option to see if it is available online is to use the article search in the Sofia Discovery tool.

What if the article is not available at Concordia?
Try searching Google or Google Scholar by using the significant words or a phrase from the title of the article combined with the last name of the author. You may also try searching for the title of the journal using quotations. This will often lead to the publisher's Web site. Browse the site to see if the article you need is freely available. Some publishers allow access to older articles without subscription.
You can also submit an interlibrary loan request using Sofia.
If you prefer to go to another library that has a printed version of your article and photocopy it yourself, a list of local libraries with links to their catalogues is available on the Library Web site.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/finding/articles/index.php

title: Peer-reviewed articles
description: <p>What is peer review?
Peer review is a system used to decide if an article should be published in a peer-reviewed journal. Each paper submitted to a peer-reviewed journal is read and evaluated by experts in the article’s subject area. The reviewers assess the article’s validity, importance, and originality, and then recommend whether it should be published in the journal. The reviewers’ suggestions are considered by the journal’s editor, who makes the final decision about whether to accept or reject the article.

Peer review ensures that quality papers are published in the journal. The reviewers confirm that articles do not contain technical problems, ethical issues or significant errors. They also verify that the authors used an appropriate study methodology, analyzed and interpreted the results correctly, and provided enough evidence to support their conclusions. Since peer review filters out work that is poorly done and makes sure that the manuscript is accurate, publication in a peer reviewed journal shows that the article is likely to be trustworthy.

peer review


Use advanced search options in databases
When searching for articles in an online database, it is sometimes possible to limit results to those from peer-reviewed journals. This option normally appears on the initial or advanced/expert search page.

In ProQuest databases, such as CBCA Complete, select the box labelled “peer reviewed” to limit your search results to show only articles from peer-reviewed journals.

ProQuest

 

In EBSCO databases, such as Academic Search Complete, check off the box called “peer reviewed” to limit the search to only articles from peer reviewed journals.

EBSCO

 
Look at journal websites
Read the journal’s "About us" section on their website to see if the words "peer-reviewed" or "refereed" are used. Also look for editorial statements (such as "articles are evaluated by two to three subject experts") or author instructions (for example, "please remove identifying information for the blinded review process").

The "About Us" page of the journal, Adaptive Behavior:

About us page


How do I know if articles are scholarly or peer reviewed?
This video examines articles found in a database search to see whether they are likely scholarly or peer reviewed.


Video transcript
How do I know if articles are scholarly or peer-reviewed?

Here is an example: let’s imagine you are writing an essay about pay equity and women. You perform this keyword search in Academic Search Complete (a large, multi-disciplinary database).

Let’s look at a few articles from the results list and evaluate whether they are scholarly or peer-reviewed. This article from the results list says it’s from a periodical.

The article is very short. It has no citations or reference list. There are no headings or sections. The article is from a trade journal - which is not scholarly: it is written for lawyers, by other lawyers.

Here is another article from the results list. It is only 3 pages long. It is written for a general audience. There are no citations or reference list, no headings or sections, and no author credentials. This is an article from a magazine – which is not scholarly: it is written by a journalist.

Here is another article from the results list. The database states the article is in an Academic Journal and that it’s 22 pages long. We can see here that a university publishes the journal — that’s a good sign! The authors have academic affiliations. There is contact information for one of the authors. If we examine the structure, we can see that the article is divided into sections with headings. The language is academic. There are also tables, graphs, data and charts – although not all scholarly articles have these. We can see that there are references: there’s an extensive bibliography of sources at the end of the article. There are also in-text citations to sources throughout the article. In conclusion, this is an academic, scholarly, peer-reviewed article that relates directly to your assignment topic.

Evaluation of sources is especially important when using Google Scholar or large, multidisciplinary databases like Academic Search Complete.

For more tutorials, visit library.concordia.ca/learn</p>
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/finding/articles/peer-review.php

title: How to find background information
description: Overview
Background research is an important step in choosing a topic and getting started on your paper. You can use background sources to acquire basic knowledge of your subject, including key facts, issues, or thinkers. Taking the time to find background information helps you to:

Understand your subject
Clarify your subject’s context
Define specialized terms you are not yet familiar with
Discover keywords that can be used in later searches
Learn about important authors and dates
Find additional sources in bibliographies or recommended reading
Pick a subject both interesting and well-documented
Back to top
Sources of background information
Wikipedia: The famous collaborative encyclopedia that anyone can edit is not a recommended academic source, but it can be a good starting point for the most basic information. However, consider some alternatives: Concordia Library has access to many other sources of background information of similar or better quality, with the added advantage of reliability. For example, try searching hundreds of online encyclopedias at once with the Gale Virtual Reference Library.

Encyclopedias: Whether they are in electronic or print format, encyclopedias are the main source of background information in a library. Short and simple, encyclopedia articles cover the important points of a subject. You can find out more about Concordia Library’s collection of encyclopedias here.

Dictionaries: Dictionaries can help you define key concepts or new technical terms. Specialized dictionaries also often contain entries similar to encyclopedias. You can find more about Concordia Library's collection of dictionaries here.

Handbooks: Handbooks contain concise entries on a subject as well as technical and practical information. You can find more about Concordia Library’s collection of handbooks here.

Newspapers and magazines: Newspapers and magazines can sometimes be good background sources because they summarize key facts and perspectives. Databases like Canadian Newsstand and Eureka.cc allow you to quickly search dozens of newspapers.

Not convinced that background research is worth your time? Watch this video from NCSU Libraries.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/finding/background-information.php

title: How to find books
description: Whether you are searching for a particular book or for books on a subject, the Sofia Discovery tool is where you should begin. There are 2 ways to access the Sofia Discovery tool on the website:
Tip: No matter where you are on the Library’s website, you’ll see the search box in the header of the page. Use it to run a simple catalogue search from any page.

The Sofia Discovery tool can help you find print books and e-books, as well as theses, encyclopedias, dictionaries, videos and more.
Searching in the Sofia Discovery tool
Enter keywords in the search box to run a simple search in the Sofia Discovery tool.

There are a few way to make your search more complex. Either you can follow the link to the Advanced Search page (just below the search box), or you can use some of the following notations:

“greenhouse effect” for results where the words are side-by-side
“greenhouse effect” OR “greenhouse gases” for results that include either phrase
(“greenhouse effect” OR “greenhouse gases”) AND (ecosystem OR animals) for results that include one phrase from each group
(“greenhouse effect*” OR “greenhouse gas*) AND (ecosystem* OR animal*) to retrieve all words that start with those letters.

Advanced Search lets you use all of those notations, and also search particular fields (e.g. Author). You can use each search box for a different word or phrase.
You can also set limits on date, location or format.
From the Sofia Discovery tool to the shelf
Click on any title in your list of results for more information, such as the book’s location in the library, call number and availability.

“Available” means that your book is available for you to borrow. The call number is the address of the book within the library. A call number always starts with one or two letters followed by numbers (ex: TJ 163.2). To find your book, look for the letters first, and then the numbers. Go to the library floor indicated under "location" and pay attention to the letters on the end of the shelves. They are organized alphabetically. Once you found the shelf corresponding to your book's call number, follow the numbers until you retrieve it.

Tip: The books in the library are grouped by subject. Browsing the shelves around an interesting book can help you find related books on the same topic.

If the book you are looking for is already checked out, you can place a request for it. You can also place a request to have a book delivered from the Webster Library to the Vanier Library or vice versa. Learn more about requests.

If you are unable to find your book on the shelves, try these solutions:

Verify if you wrote down the correct call number and location.
Check the availability of your book to make sure it is currently in the library.
Place a request on the book.
Ask for help at the reference or information desks.

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/finding/books.php

title: Ebooks at Concordia and beyond
description: Search for ebooks in the Sofia Discovery tool
To find ebooks in the Sofia Discovery tool, enter keywords in the search box below.

Example: quantum physics

Explore our ebook collections
The subject lists here represent a sampling of Concordia's ebook packages and of recommmended open access collections. Select one of the categories on the left to browse and explore.
General and multidisciplinary
ACLS Humanities E-book
An online collection of over 3,300 scholarly and academic books in the humanities and related social sciences.
Cambridge Books Online
Cambridge University Press ebooks in a variety of disciplines
Canada Commons
eBooks on EBSCOhost
Formerly NetLibrary, this new e-book platform provides access to the complete contents of recently published books in several disciplines.
Gale virtual reference library
Search a full-text collection of major subject encyclopedias, dictionaries, handbooks, and other reference sources covering a broad range of multidisciplinary areas.
Gale virtual reference library
Search a full-text collection of major subject encyclopedias, dictionaries, handbooks, and other reference sources covering a broad range of multidisciplinary areas.
Harvard University Press eBook Collection
A collection of e-books published by Harvard University Press in the following fields: Art and Music; Classical and Ancient Near Eastern Studies; History; Law; Linguistics, Communications; Literary Studies; Medicine; Natural Sciences; Philosophy; Social Sciences; and Religion.
Oxford reference online premium
A cross-searchable database of full-text reference books, which includes works in various subjects published by Oxford University Press.
Oxford Scholarship Online
Scholarly books in eighteen disciplines including Economics, Finance, Music, Philosophy, Public Health, Political Science, Religion and Theological Studies.
ProQuest Ebook Central
Online books on a wide variety of subjects and from a wide variety of publishers. (formerly Myilibrary)
SAGE Research Methods Online
Contains content from more than 640 books, dictionaries, encyclopedias, and handbooks, the entire “Little Green Book,” and Little Blue Book” series, and more. Browse all content available on SAGE Research Methods by title. Use the menu on the right hand side of the page to filter by content type.
SpringerLink Ebooks
Scholarly books in Computer Science and Engineering and other disciplines such as Mathematics, Business and Economics, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Humanities, Law and Social Science.
Taylor and Francis eBooks
An extensive collection of electronic books covering subjects in the Humanities, Social Sciences, Behavioural Sciences and Law, from imprints such as Routledge, Psychology Press and Focal Press.
UPCC Books on Project MUSE
Peer-reviewed books in the humanities and social sciences from university presses and scholarly publishers (the University Press Content Consortium), accessible via Project MUSE's integrated ebook/journal platform.

Business
APA books
A collection of ebooks published by the American Psychological Association, covering core and emerging sub-disciplines of psychology.
eBooks on EBSCOhost
Formerly NetLibrary, this new e-book platform provides access to the complete contents of recently published books in several disciplines.
Emerald Business, Management and Economics eBook Collection
A collection of full-text electronic books in Business, Management, and Economics
Oxford Scholarship Online
Scholarly books in eighteen disciplines including Economics, Finance, Music, Philosophy, Public Health, Political Science, Religion and Theological Studies.
SAGE Research Methods Online
Contains content from more than 640 books, dictionaries, encyclopedias, and handbooks, the entire “Little Green Book,” and Little Blue Book” series, and more. Browse all content available on SAGE Research Methods by title. Use the menu on the right hand side of the page to filter by content type.
SpringerLink Ebooks
Scholarly books in Computer Science and Engineering and other disciplines such as Mathematics, Business and Economics, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Humanities, Law and Social Science.

Fine arts
Early English Books Online - EEBO
Provides digital access to the full-text and full-images of printed books from 1475-1700.
eBooks on EBSCOhost
Formerly NetLibrary, this new e-book platform provides access to the complete contents of recently published books in several disciplines.
Harvard University Press eBook Collection
A collection of e-books published by Harvard University Press in the following fields: Art and Music; Classical and Ancient Near Eastern Studies; History; Law; Linguistics, Communications; Literary Studies; Medicine; Natural Sciences; Philosophy; Social Sciences; and Religion.
Oxford Scholarship Online
Scholarly books in eighteen disciplines including Economics, Finance, Music, Philosophy, Public Health, Political Science, Religion and Theological Studies.
ProQuest Ebook Central
Online books on a wide variety of subjects and from a wide variety of publishers. (formerly Myilibrary)

Humanities
ACLS Humanities E-book
An online collection of over 3,300 scholarly and academic books in the humanities and related social sciences.
Cambridge Books Online
Cambridge University Press ebooks in a variety of disciplines
Cambridge Companions Complete Collection
Contains the full text of the Cambridge Companions to literature, philosophy, religion, classics and culture.
Canada Commons
Early Canadiana Online
'Early Canadiana Online (ECO) is a digital library of primary sources in Canadian history from the first European contact to the early 20th century. The collection is particularly strong in the subject areas of literature, women's history, travel and exploration, native studies and the history of French Canada.'
Early English Books Online - EEBO
Provides digital access to the full-text and full-images of printed books from 1475-1700.
eBooks on EBSCOhost
Formerly NetLibrary, this new e-book platform provides access to the complete contents of recently published books in several disciplines.
Harvard University Press eBook Collection
A collection of e-books published by Harvard University Press in the following fields: Art and Music; Classical and Ancient Near Eastern Studies; History; Law; Linguistics, Communications; Literary Studies; Medicine; Natural Sciences; Philosophy; Social Sciences; and Religion.
Oxford Scholarship Online
Scholarly books in eighteen disciplines including Economics, Finance, Music, Philosophy, Public Health, Political Science, Religion and Theological Studies.
ProQuest Ebook Central
Online books on a wide variety of subjects and from a wide variety of publishers. (formerly Myilibrary)
SpringerLink Ebooks
Scholarly books in Computer Science and Engineering and other disciplines such as Mathematics, Business and Economics, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Humanities, Law and Social Science.
UPCC Books on Project MUSE
Peer-reviewed books in the humanities and social sciences from university presses and scholarly publishers (the University Press Content Consortium), accessible via Project MUSE's integrated ebook/journal platform.

Social sciences
ACLS Humanities E-book
An online collection of over 3,300 scholarly and academic books in the humanities and related social sciences.
APA books
A collection of ebooks published by the American Psychological Association, covering core and emerging sub-disciplines of psychology.
APA handbook of industrial and organizational psychology
This handbook presents the types of issues that industrial and organizational psychologists study, the questions they pursue, the research they conduct, and the interventions they implement.
Cambridge Books Online
Cambridge University Press ebooks in a variety of disciplines
Canada Commons
eBooks on EBSCOhost
Formerly NetLibrary, this new e-book platform provides access to the complete contents of recently published books in several disciplines.
Harvard University Press eBook Collection
A collection of e-books published by Harvard University Press in the following fields: Art and Music; Classical and Ancient Near Eastern Studies; History; Law; Linguistics, Communications; Literary Studies; Medicine; Natural Sciences; Philosophy; Social Sciences; and Religion.
Oxford Scholarship Online
Scholarly books in eighteen disciplines including Economics, Finance, Music, Philosophy, Public Health, Political Science, Religion and Theological Studies.
ProQuest Ebook Central
Online books on a wide variety of subjects and from a wide variety of publishers. (formerly Myilibrary)
SAGE Research Methods Online
Contains content from more than 640 books, dictionaries, encyclopedias, and handbooks, the entire “Little Green Book,” and Little Blue Book” series, and more. Browse all content available on SAGE Research Methods by title. Use the menu on the right hand side of the page to filter by content type.
SpringerLink Ebooks
Scholarly books in Computer Science and Engineering and other disciplines such as Mathematics, Business and Economics, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Humanities, Law and Social Science.
Taylor and Francis eBooks
An extensive collection of electronic books covering subjects in the Humanities, Social Sciences, Behavioural Sciences and Law, from imprints such as Routledge, Psychology Press and Focal Press.
UPCC Books on Project MUSE
Peer-reviewed books in the humanities and social sciences from university presses and scholarly publishers (the University Press Content Consortium), accessible via Project MUSE's integrated ebook/journal platform.
link: 

title: How to find book reviews
description: Overview
A book review is an evaluative and/or descriptive analysis published shortly after a book's publication. Book reviews vary in length from a paragraph to a few pages and provide an overall evaluation of a book's strengths and weaknesses. Books may be reviewed in popular magazines, newspapers and/or scholarly journals.

To find book reviews, you need the author's name, the title of the book as well as the original date of publication (the date when the book was first published). Keep in mind that reviews in scholarly journals may not appear until two or three years after the book was published.

Please note that book reviews are different from critical analyses of a classic book or of a work's impact on a field.

Recent book reviews
Online databases provide the best access for most recent (post-1980s) book reviews. In many cases, the full text will be available in electronic format. Choosing a database depends on the subject of the book and its date of publication. Select a database using the Database Finder.

The following is a selective list of databases containing book reviews:

Academic Search Complete
multidisciplinary, scholarly & popular

Canadian Newsstand Major Dailies
Canadian English-language newspapers

CBCA Complete
multidisciplinary, Canadian, scholarly & popular

CPI.Q (Canadian Periodical Index)
multidisciplinary, Canadian, scholarly & popular

New York Times on ProQuest
contains reviews from the New York Times Book Review

Periodicals Archive Online
arts, humanities and social sciences, scholarly

Repère (French-language articles)
multidisciplinary, scholarly & popular

Search tips
In the search box, type the most distinctive keywords in the author and title, combined with "AND", for example: atwood AND survival

Depending on which database you use, you may be able to limit your search to book reviews. If the database has limit options, see if you can limit your search by "document type" and choose "reviews" or "book reviews." If the database does not have search limits settings, trying adding "AND review" to your search terms, for example: atwood AND survival AND review.

Older book reviews
For older (pre-1980s) book reviews, print indexes such as book review indexes and periodical indexes are particularly useful.

Book review indexes are specialized tools that help locate book reviews published in journals or magazines. Look alphabetically under the author or title. Choosing an index depends on the type of book and the date of publication. Cumulative retrospective book review indexes cover a certain time period in one publication. Look under the author or title.

Other more general indexes help you locate articles of all types in journals, magazines or newspapers. Book reviews are usually located in a separate section at the end of the index under a heading called "Book Reviews". If not, they can be found alphabetically under the letter "B" amongst the rest of the text.

Reviews in popular and scholarly sources
Book review indexes

Book Review Digest
Z 1219 C96
Webster Library Reference: 1905-2010

Book Review Index
Z 1035 A1B6
Webster Library Reference: 1965-2007

General indexes

Canadian Periodical Index
AI 3 C2
Webster and Vanier Library reference: 1963-1980

Reader's Guide to Periodical Literature
AI 3 R48
Vanier Library Reference: v.1 (1900/1904)-v.64 (2004)

Reviews in scholarly sources
Book review indexes

An Index to Book Reviews in the Humanities
Z 1035 A1I63
Webster Library Reference: v.2 (1961)-v.4 (1963), v.6 (1965)-v.31 (1990)

Combined Retrospective Index to Book Reviews in Scholarly Journals 1886-1974
Z 1035 A1C64
Webster Library Reference

General indexes

Humanities and Social Sciences Index Retrospective
Online

JSTOR
Online
Searches can be limited to reviews

For more information, ask a librarian.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/find/book-reviews.php

title: Government information
description: GALLOP Portal - federal and provincial legislative/parliamentary libraries
Publications gouvernementales du Québec en ligne - BAnQ
Ontario Government Documents - Government of Ontario
Publications Canada - Official Government of Canada documents
HeinOnline Academic Core Collection - legal and government publications digital archives from Canada and the U.S.
More government information databases
link: https://library.concordia.ca/find/government/index.php

title: Newspapers
description: Current issues of newspapers in print format
At Webster Library, current print issues of the following daily newspapers are available in the newspaper display shelves:

Le Devoir
The National Post
Globe and Mail
Montreal Gazette
The Wall Street Journal
At Vanier Library, current print issues of the following daily newspapers are available at the Circulation Desk:

Globe and Mail
Montreal Gazette
New York Times
Full-text databases for current newspapers
Check the e-journals list by title of the newspaper you are looking for to find out if we have electronic access to it through one of the major newspaper databases below or through another database that we subscribe to. The e-journals list will also provide details on years of coverage by source.

Canadian Newsstream
Includes over 300 primarily English language Canadian newspapers including major Canadian dailies, such as Montreal Gazette, Toronto Star, Globe and Mail. You may also access this database via Proquest Central
Eureka.cc
Essential to access French language Canadian daily newspapers such as La Presse, Le Devoir, Le Soleil. Provides full image pdf for some titles in addition to full-text. Also includes regional and weekly papers from across Canada. Selected international coverage.
Factiva
Includes Canadian, U.S. and international newspapers including major dailies and regional newspapers.
Proquest Central
Includes Canadian, U.S and international newspapers including major dailies such as Los Angeles Times, Chicago Tribune. Use the filter options to limit by region, title or database group (Canadian Newsstream, U.S. Newsstream, International Newsstream)
Lexis-Nexis
Only available within the Library during service hours. It includes a wide range of international and U.S. newspapers and may be useful to check if the newspaper you are looking for is not listed in the e-journals list or covered in another database. Titles included in Lexis-Nexis are not listed in the e-journals list.
Historical full image electronic archives
Financial Times Historical Archive(1888-2010)
Proquest Historical Globe and Mail (1844-2013)
Proquest Historical Irish Times (1859-2011) and the Weekly Irish Times (1876-1958)
Proquest Historical Jerusalem Post (1932-1988)
Proquest Historical Toronto Star (1894-2013)
Proquest Historical New York Times (1851-2013)
Times (London) Digital Archive (1785-2010)
Proquest Historical Wall Street Journal (1889-1999)
Proquest Historical Washington Post (1877-2000)
ProQuest Recent Newspapers: Includes the Montreal Gazette from January 2011 onwards and the Wall Street Journal from January 2008 onwards. There is a time lag of approximately three months between updates in the database and the most recent issue.
Paper of Record
Includes full image scans of newspapers from Canada, the US, Latin America, Europe and Australia, with coverage mostly from the 1800s to early/mid 1900.
Early Canadiana Online - Periodicals
Includes selected news periodicals from the 17th to the early 20th century, including the Canadian Illustrated News
Historical full image microform archives
The Library maintains full image newspaper archives in microform formats. These are kept in cabinets at both Webster and Vanier, organized by call number. Equipment to view the images, print and save is available for use in each library.

Should the title you need not be listed in the guide, please perform an advanced search in the Sofia Discovery tool by title of the newspaper, and limit the search to "Journal, magazine".
Library holdings for selected Canadian newspapers by title
Calgary Herald online
Chronicle-Herald (Halifax) microform | online
Daily News (Halifax) online
Le Devoir microform and paper | online
Le Droit (Ottawa) online
Edmonton Journal microform | online
Montreal Gazette microform | paper | online
Globe and Mail microform | paper | online
Guardian (Charlottetown) microform | online
Kingston Whig-Standard online
Leader Post (Regina) microform | online
National Post microform and paper | online
Ottawa Citizen microform | online
La Presse microform | online
Province (Vancouver) online
Le Soleil (Quebec City) microform | online
Star-Phoenix (Saskatoon) online
Sudbury Star online
Telegram (St. John's, NFLD) microform | online
Telegraph Journal (St. John, NB) online
Times-Colonist (Victoria) online
Toronto Star microform | online
Vancouver Sun microform | online
Windsor Star online
Winnipeg Free Press microform | online

Historical archives on the Web
Google News Archive
Full image scans of U.S and Canadian newspapers including selected coverage of the Montreal Herald, Montreal Gazette, Montreal Daily Witness. Issues and years included vary with the newspaper.
BANQ:Revues et journaux Quebecois
A collection of digitized historical Quebec newspapers and periodicals. Dates and coverage vary with the title. Includes La Presse from 1968 to 2013
French Canadian Newspapers: Essential historical resources 1808-1919
Canadian Illustrated News
Canadian War Museum, Democracy at War: Canadian Newspapers and the Second World War
Special Editions of Canadian Newspapers
Multicultural Canada (SFU Digitized newspapers)
BC Historical Newspapers
Bill Silver Digital Newspaper Archive
Prince George Newspapers
British Colonist (Victoria) 1858-1951)
University of Alberta. Peel's Prairie Provinces, Newspapers 1871-2013
Early Alberta newspapers
Saskatchewan Historical Newspapers Online
INK-ODW (Ontario)
Nova Scotia Historical Newspapers Online
The Guardian (Charlottetown)
Memorial University of Newfoundland Digitized Archives
Chronicling America: Historic American Newspapers
A searchable collection of digitized American newspapers from 1789-1922.
Newseum, Front Page Archives
NewspaperCat: Catalogue of Digital Newspapers
International Coalition on Newspapers: Newspaper Digitization Projects
An international directory of digitized newspapers listed by country and by state for U.S.

Directories of newspapers on the Web
CBC: Local News Directory
Newseum: Today's front pages
Internet Public Library, Newspapers & Magazines
Online Newspapers.com
Newslilnk
Newspaperindex.com
HomeTownNews.com
Paperboy
Includes front pages for different countries


link: https://library.concordia.ca/find/news/newspapers.php

title: Broadcasts
description: See also
Newspapers
News databases
Broadcast news transcripts
Major databases for Canadian, U.S. and international broadcast news transcripts are:

Proquest Central
Factiva
Eureka
You may also wish to check the e-journals list by the name of the network or show to locate transcripts from a specific network or show, for example:

CBC
Radio Canada
Power and Politics
All things considered
NBC
Streaming broadcast archives
Vanderbilt Television News Archive
CBC Digital Archive
CPAC Digital Archive
AP Archive
BBC Archive
British Pathe
TV News Archive
American Archive of Public Broadcasting
Internet Archive: News and Public Affairs
Internet Archive: Universal Newsreels
Broadcast archives at Concordia
Diniacopoulos BBC World News Collection
CBC Morningside Documents Collection

link: https://library.concordia.ca/find/news/broadcasts.php

title: Finding Open Access content
description: Search Services that index Open Access content
Google and Google Scholar - Google Scholar indexes open access articles, identifying them within a results list with a green arrow. While not all articles found on Google or Google Scholar include free full text, Google searches many open access repositories in addition to proprietary content.
BASE - Bielefeld Academic Search Engine indexes academically relevant web resources from over 2000 sources. It was created and developed by Bielefeld University Library.
CORE - Find Open Access research papers from data providers from all over the world including institutional repositories, subject-repositories and journal publishers.
Open Access Theses and Dissertations (OATD) - OATD is a discovery service intended to improve the ability to put researchers and scholars in touch with the valuable and unique Open Access content. OATD does not index or redistribute any document's full text.
OpenAire - Search repositories and OA journals from across Europe and the world.
Australasian Open Access Repositories
IDEAS/RePEc - Internet Documents in Economics Access Service (IDEAS) for Research Papers in Economics (RePEc) includes open access working papers, book chapters and software components. The service has been made possible through the collaborative effort of volunteers worldwide.
Open Access Repositories
Spectrum: Concordia University Research Repository - Concordia University's open access institutional repository that centralizes access and preserves the research created at Concordia.
arXiv.org - An open access repository comprising of e-prints in physics and its related disciplines, such as mathematics, non-linear sciences, and computer science. arXiv is owned and maintained by Cornell University and partially funded by the National Science Foundation.
Cogprints - A repository comprised of self-archived works predominantly in the areas of the cognitive sciences, including psychology, neuroscience, linguistics, computer science, philosophy, biology, medicine, and anthropology. The archive resides and is maintained by the University of Southampton.
E-LIS - An international open access archive for preprints, postprints and other documents in the field of library and information science.
NDLTD - Networked Digital Library of Theses and Dissertations is a collaborative project between universities worldwide, which disseminates and preserves electronic theses and dissertations.
HAL (France) - Hyper Article on Line is designed for authors to deposit their research, and thereby offer publicly available scholarly documents from all academic fields. The repository is run through CNRS (Centre national de la recherche scientifique) in France. Registration is required to contribute to HAL.
PubMed Central - A free digital archive of biomedical and life sciences journal literature at the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH).
Social Science Research Network (SSRN): Repository for the social sciences and humanities.
Directories
OpenDOAR - Directory of Open Access Repositories - A directory of academic open access repositories. Maintained by the University of Nottingham, this site lists institutional and subject-based repositories, while also providing a service to search the contents of these repositories.
Open Access disciplinary respositories: List maintained by the Open Access Directory (OAD)
Directory of Open Access Journals - Directory of free, full-text, quality controlled scientific and scholarly journals.
Directory of Open Access Books - Directory of free, full-text, academic peer-reviewed books from a variety of publishers.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/research/open-access/open-access-content.php

title: Library guide for new students
description: A brief introduction to services, facilities, and collections

The Concordia Library is open 24/7 during the fall and winter terms. Both Webster Library and Vanier Library are open 24 hours until the end of final exams during each term. Concordia ID cards are required in order to enter and/or remain in the Library between 11 p.m. – 7 a.m. and on University holidays when the Library is open.


The Library has both print and digital collections and subscriptions. You can borrow print books with your Concordia ID card and access digital collections we subscribe to (databases, ebooks, journals, magazines, and more) with your Concordia netname — for free! Search the Sofia Discovery tool to find resources on any topic in our collection.

More information on Loans & Returns
User guide for the Sofia Discovery tool

Access to academic databases: Need scholarly or peer-reviewed articles for your assignments? The Library subscribes to over 500 databases to give you free access to articles, data and statistics, multimedia, ebooks and more. See the recommended databases for your area of study.


Welcome to the Webster Library video (LB-2, Part 1)

LB-2 floor plan
Library locations, opening and service hours
Study spaces
Technology at the Library
Ask a Librarian service
Floor plans and events
Borrowing books and equipment
Printing, photocopying and scanning

Welcome to the Webster Library! Let’s head upstairs and see some of the services and resources you can find here! 
Camera moving up the stairs, around the corner to the second-floor landing area

We’re open 24/7 during the fall and winter semesters and late into the evening during spring and summer. 

This is a place to study, relax, collaborate, and find support for all kinds of research and learning needs. Whether you’re looking for a quiet place to work, need to find some books for a course project, or want to discover new technology, the Library has you covered! This is your Library, and we are here to help you navigate it. 

We’re here to answer any questions you have, so don’t worry about knowing how the Library works before you come in. We can help you find resources and answer your research questions. Whatever it is, we got you!

You can also ask questions online using the Library’s chat service. 

Or, use one of the nine interactive kiosks found throughout the library to find the information you’re looking for. See maps of the Library, find a computer that’s open, check our hours, learn about upcoming events, and more. 

To the right of the landing area you’ll find the loans desk. 

This is where you’ll come to take out books, but you can also sign out equipment like laptops, tablets, headphones, phone chargers, and more. All you need is your Concordia ID card. You can also place a hold on a book online and pick it up at either of our two libraries. 

You can also check our materials yourself with our self-service machines. 

Need to print? We have printers, scanners, and photocopiers just past the Ask Us desk
Show area to the left of the second-floor landing area with the printers, scanners, and photocopiers

You just need to add money to your Dprint account in order to print. 

Whether you want to study, focus on research, or find a relaxing place to read, the Library is yours to use, and library staff are here to answer your questions. Stick around for the next video to find out more about our other spaces and resources.

Welcome to the Webster Library video (LB-2, Part 2)

Now that you’re a bit more familiar with the Library, let’s look at some of the more specialized services located here on the second floor. 

First stop, the Technology Sandbox

This is a community space where everyone can learn by doing. Here, you can borrow and learn how to use all kinds of tools and tech for whatever project you’re working on. 3D printing and scanning, virtual reality headsets, green screens, game consoles, microphones, robotics kits and electronics are just a few of the tools we have for you to use, and there are always staff here to help you get started. 

Next, we’ll head past the loans desk to the course reserves room

Sometimes your professors will have materials set aside for your class to let all students have access to them for free. These are called course reserves. This means you can access textbooks and course materials for free. 
Show screenshots to relevant Library webpages

You can find out what materials are in the course reserves room on our website. Or, if you aren’t sure, just ask us at the Ask Us desk or the loans desk!

We have lots of materials here for you to use, but what if you need something that we don’t have? As a Concordia student, you also have access to Library materials from other universities in Quebec, Canada, and abroad. 

You can request books, articles, and other items and pick them up here at the Webster Loans desk, or at the Vanier Library.

Now that you know all about the second floor, let's go upstairs and see what kinds of workspaces we have. Our next video will show you how to choose the best workspaces for your needs.

LB-2 floor plan
Technology Sandbox
Course Reserves
Requesting books, requesting articles or requesting chapters from the Concordia Library or other libraries in Quebec, Canada and worldwide

Textbooks and course materials: We have a copy of every required undergraduate textbook in the Course Reserve room on the campus where the course is taught. You can borrow most items for three hours. Log into Course Reserves.


Printing and scanning: There are many DPrint machines across campus, including 6 at the Vanier Library and 8 at the Webster Library. The Library also has KIC scanners and flatbed scanners, which can output digital files in multiple formats for free. Did you know we even have 3D printers in the Technology Sandbox?


Computers and IT equipment: Use one of 100s of desktop computers at either Library. Use our real-time availability maps to find an available workstation. Borrow laptops, tablets, accessories and Technology Sandbox equipment. Visit the Loans & Returns desk (Webster Library) or the Circulation Desk (Vanier Library) with your Concordia ID card.


Specialized help is available from your subject librarian: There are more than 50 subject guides created by librarians for departments and/or fields of study at Concordia. In each guide, you'll find recommended databases, search tips, instructions for finding materials in that subject area, and useful links. Find your subject guide. See the Library Research Skills Tutorial for learning foundational research skills.


Study carrels at Vanier Library
22 different study spaces: From quiet, individual study spaces in the reading rooms to social learning areas in open spaces, group study rooms and presentation practice rooms, the Library strives to provide the spaces most conducive to your academic success. The Vanier Library even has treadmill and stationary bike workstations.


Welcome to the Webster Library video (LB-3 and LB-4)

LB-3 floor plan
Study spaces
Group study rooms and presentation practice rooms
Visualization studio
LB-4 floor plan

There are reading rooms and work areas that you can use on every floor of the Library The Library is open 24/7 during the fall and winter semesters. If you come after 11pm, be sure to bring your Concordia ID. Let’s look at some of the spaces on the third floor—which one is best for you?

You can find bright spaces all over the library that are open to all students where you can work alone or in groups. You don’t need to reserve these spots, and it’s okay to talk!

We also have  group study rooms where you can collaborate on course projects Be sure to book these in advance on the Library website .

As well, there are presentation practice rooms with all the technology you need to perfect your presentation skills. You can also record your presentations to use for virtual assignments or conferences. 

The Library also has reading rooms and other designated quiet areas where you can go to focus on reading or working. 

Want to think, meditate, or relax in a quiet space? The third floor has a zero-noise room that provides a peaceful oasis for quiet reflection. No keyboards or talking are permitted.
Images or footage of new wellness collection

Be sure to visit our wellness collection to give your mind and body a break while engaging in relaxing activities like puzzles, colouring, games, or reading for fun. 

The third floor also hosts the Visualization Studio, a space for research and teaching with an impressive 9 metre wall of interactive touch screens and an immersive audio system.

For bookings and upcoming events, head to the Visualization Studio webpage.

You’ll find a lot more open study spaces, reading rooms, and group study rooms on the 4th floor. Let’s head up to the 5th floor to see what the Library has for Concordia graduate students.


Welcome to the Webster Library video (LB-5)

LB-5 floor plan
Graduate study spaces (reading rooms and dissertation writers' rooms)

Like the rest of the Library, the 5th floor has various study spaces. But, if you’re a graduate student, you’ll find rooms on the 5th floor designed just for you. Let’s take a look at what makes the 5th floor unique. 

One of the two reading rooms on the 5th floor is designated specifically for graduate students to work on their research. You’ll need to scan your Concordia ID to access this room.


Down the hall you’ll find the dissertation writers’ rooms.

These are furnished with tables, lights, chairs, lockers, and shelves. There is also a shared lounge space, printers and copiers, and a kitchenette for you to use. Again, make sure you bring your Concordia ID so you can access these rooms. 

Whether you’re looking for a place to work on your research, or a place to relax, we have spaces for you. Remember, the Library is yours to use however your need, and library staff are here to help.

Welcome to Vanier Library (1st floor) 



Welcome to the Vanier Library! This is a place to study, relax, collaborate, and find support for all kinds of research and learning needs. Whatever you need, the Library has you covered. This is your space, and we are here to help you navigate it. Let’s take a tour through the first floor and see some of the services and resources you can find here.  


You don’t have to worry about knowing how the Library works before you come in. Just stop by the reference desk, and we can help you find resources and give advice on research.  


You can also ask questions online using the Library’s chat service 

Show a scan of the front entrance area, scanning from the reference desk to the circulation desk 



This is where you’ll come to take out books, but you can also sign out equipment like laptops, tablets, headphones, phone chargers, and more. All you need is your Concordia ID card. You can also request a book for pick-up at either of our two libraries.  


You can also check out materials yourself with our self-service machines. 



Need to print? We have printers, scanners, and photocopiers just past the Library’s entrance.  You’ll need to add money to your DPrint account either online or using the DPrint loader.  


Whether you want to study, focus on research, or find a relaxing place to read, the Library is yours to use, and library staff are here to answer your questions. Our next video will take a look at some of the more specialized resources we have here. 

Services at Vanier Library (1st floor Part 2) 



Now that you know the basics, let’s take a look at some of the other useful services and spaces here on the 1st floor. First, let’s check out the course reserves room, just passed the reference desk. 


Sometimes your professors will have materials set aside for your class to let all students have access to them for free. These are called course reserves. This means you can access textbooks and course materials for free.  

Most books can be borrowed for up to 3 hours at a time, and can be returned using any of the return slots.  



You can find out what materials are in the course reserves room on our website. Or, if you aren’t sure, just ask us at the Circulation or Reference Desk. 


When you’re finished, you can return the materials to the Circulation Desk, or you can drop them off using the return slots near the Library entrance. 


We have lots of materials here for you to use, but what if you need something that we don’t have? As a Concordia student, you also have access to Library materials from other universities in Québec, Canada, and Abroad.  


You can request books, articles, and other items and pick them up here at the Vanier Circulation Desk, or at the Webster Library. 



If you want to stay and get some work done, we have a classroom and quiet study hall with computers for you to use. 



The Library isn’t just a place to study, though. You can also come to relax or read just for fun. Just past the reference desk you’ll find a record player where you can listen to music. Vanier Library has thousands of LPs for you to listen to! 


If you’re looking for more spots to study or collaborate, we have lots of options upstairs. In our next video, we’ll take a tour of the different workspaces on the 2nd and 3rd floor. 



There are group study rooms and open study areas you can use on every floor of the Library. We’re open 24/7 during the fall and winter semesters, just make sure to bring your Concordia ID if you want to come after 11pm.  

Let’s take a look at some of the space on the 2nd and 3rd floor and figure out which one is best for you. 



You can find bright spaces with natural light all over the library that any students can use, there’s no need to reserve a spot. We have study carrels too if you need a bit of extra privacy and focus.   

The first and second floors are quiet zones, so it's best to keep talking to a minimum, but upstairs on the third floor it’s perfectly okay to talk. 


The third floor also has group study rooms where you can collaborate on projects. Be sure to book these in advance on the Library website.  



If you’re a graduate student, we have two rooms designated specifically for you. We have a meeting room that you can book in advance on the Library website, and a silent study room with cupboard space that you can reserve to store your library materials throughout the semester.  

For both rooms, you’ll just need to get an access code from the circulation desk, and don’t forget to bring your student ID!  



If you ever find yourself in need of some movement while you work, you can use the treadmill and bike workstations on the third floor. There’s no need to reserve them in advance, and they are a great way to get your body moving and destress. 



We have lots of space for you to work, research, or relax. Whether you want to get some coursework finished or you just want a quiet place to sit and read a new book, the Library is yours to use however you need, and staff are always here to help. 

 Special Collections 



If you’re doing research, our libraries have thousands of books and articles online and onsite for you to use. Here at Vanier Library, you can also find Special Collections where we keep rare and unique books, photographs, maps, and other archival materials to support your research.   


With the help of Special Collections staff, you can access over 180 archival fonds and collections, as well as thousands of unique items.  



We acquire a wide array of materials to support teaching, learning, and research. Some of our areas of focus include Black history and community archives, visual arts and photography, jazz and improvised music, nightlife, journalism and communications, and Québec counterculture, an area that we refer to as Quebec Alternatif. . 

You’ll also find materials in a variety of other subject areas so check with Library staff or in the catalogue if you have questions about our holdings 



These materials aren’t available to sign out and take home, you’ll have to make an appointment and visit us here on the first floor of Vanier in the Special Collections Reading Room. 


The Special Collections Reading Room is open Monday to Friday. Opening hours are listed on the Library website. If you already know what you want to see, you can email Special Collections to schedule a visit and we will take care of retrieving everything you need.  

spec-coll@concordia.ca 



If you don’t know exactly what you’re looking for yet, you can browse through our Archives and Special Collections Catalog online to see what we have. You can also talk to a staff member, and we can help guide you and give you the tools necessary to learn what is available.  


Archives and special collections can be a bit confusing to navigate, but we’re here to help you with any questions you have. Whether you have specific research requests or want to know more about our services and collections, just send us an email and we’ll be happy to chat. 

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/users/new-students/index.php

title: How to evaluate research materials and resources
description: Why evaluate? General criteria
Research requires critical thinking to determine if the sources that you found for your assignments are credible and meet academic research standards.

Credible sources are reliable, trustworthy sources of information. Use your own judgment to question the reliability of the source and evaluate its quality and relevance to your research. Here are some questions to bear in mind when trying to determine the reliability of a source:

Who is the author of the source?

What is the author’s expertise?
What is the author’s motivation?
Is this information reliable?

What degree of currency is needed? When was it published?
What was the editorial process? Was the source vetted by peers?
Is this information relevant to your topic?

How relevant is this information to your specific need?
What perspectives are given? Should you consider other perspectives?
Learn to apply these types of questions to all sources that you use, including books, articles, websites, news, and media materials. Always examine critically all sources that you use. For detailed guidelines on evaluating each type of source, consider the criteria by format for books, articles, websites and media.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/evaluating/evaluating.php

title: How to evaluate books
description: Authority/authorship
Who is the author and what is their expertise in the subject area?
Do they have any professional affiliations?
Is their work experience or education relevant? Are any of their other publications relevant?

Currency/timeliness
When was it published?
Is the information still relevant?
Has the book been updated? Is there a more recent edition?

Purpose/audience
What is the author’s motivation?
Who are the intended readers? The content will vary depending on the book’s targeted audience. It could be very general and introduce the readers to a subject. Conversely, the content could be very specific, aimed at other scholars in the field.

Accuracy/documentation
Is there a bibliography or list of references?
Can you identify research data?
What was the editorial process?
Is this information reliable?

Objectivity/thoroughness
What perspectives are given, or ignored?
Be alert for bias. The author may represent only one side of a topic or argument.
Research provides evidence and drives the conclusions reached by the author.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/evaluating/evaluating-books.php

title: How to evaluate articles
description: Authority/authorship
Who is the author and what is their expertise in the subject area? Have they written on the same subject before?
Are they affiliated with a research institution?
Who is the publisher and what are their credentials?

Currency/timeliness
When was the article published?
Do you only need the most recent articles? If so, you may choose to limit your search by date.

Coverage/relevance
The contents of scholarly articles are summarized in the abstract. Read the abstract to make sure that the article is related to your research topic.

Purpose/audience
Is the article written to prove something (empirical research), persuade the reader, or describe a phenomenon? An abstract typically states the purpose of the article.
Is the paper scholarly (peer-reviewed)?

Accuracy/documentation
Does the article provide a detailed list of references? Scholarly and peer-reviewed research articles always include a bibliography or reference list of works consulted by the author and have clear in-text citations or footnotes about the sources used in the article.
Sources must be clearly indicated. There should be no question about who is responsible for the information, and where the information is coming from.
Avoid articles that contain spelling or grammatical errors.

Objectivity/thoroughness
Be aware of any bias on the part of the author or publisher, especially from non-scholarly sources such as newspaper editorials and opinion pieces.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/evaluating/evaluating-articles.php

title: How to evaluate media materials
description: Media materials may include photographs, documentary films, TV and radio broadcasts, even Twitter and Instagram posts.

Authority/authorship
Who created the work (e.g. broadcaster, publisher, government)?
Can you locate the original source of the image? Tools such as Google Reverse Image Finder can help you locate the source of an image.

Currency/timeliness
How current is the information and coverage?
Can the same information or images be found through other reputable sources or sites for confirmation?

Coverage/relevance
Has there been sufficient time for accurate analysis and understanding of the topic? News reports may require time for follow-up; consider the depth of information when searching for substantive sources.

Purpose/audience
For what purpose was the material created (e.g. entertainment, educational, promotional, commercial, professional)? Consider where and how the image is being displayed and why.

Accuracy/documentation
Is the image staged, re-enacted, or authentic? Are the news reports genuine or are they satirical?
How does that impact the transmission of information?

Objectivity/thoroughness
Is the information presented in an objective manner or is it biased? Edited or altered photographs and films are examples of how media can transmit selective information.
Determine the intent of the information and whether it represents a particular or biased opinion. Images and sounds may be altered or manipulated; practices such as voice-over narration, framing, editing, and lighting can be used to shape a particular point of view.
Compare a cross-section of different media sources to help determine accuracy.
Are different points of view offered? Are conclusions supported by evidence?
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/evaluating/evaluating-media.php

title: How to evaluate websites
description: Information found on the Internet requires particular attention, as anyone can create a website and post information without review or consequence. It is essential to examine and determine the validity and accuracy of the information published on websites.

Authority/authorship
Is the author or organization clearly identified?
What is their particular expertise on the topic? Many sites with reputable authors will include biographical and contact information.

Currency/timeliness
When was the website created?
Is the site updated and maintained? Check for broken links, or links to less reputable or abandoned sites – these are signs of a dated website.

Coverage/relevance
Is the topic covered in-depth with research to support it? You should be able to cite the information with confidence that it is valid and substantive.

Purpose/audience
Is the website academic, professional, commercial, political or "click-bait"? The sole purpose of "click-bait" is to gain clicks and generate advertising revenue.
Is the information meant to educate and inform, to persuade, or to sell and make a profit?
Check for advertisements and sidebars that lead to unrelated sites.

Accuracy/documentation
Is there a bibliography or reference list of sources, including links to other relevant web pages?
Are various sides or opinions on a topic or argument covered?
Does the site voice extreme views or use inflammatory language? These are characteristic of propaganda.

Objectivity/thoroughness
Does the site acknowledge affiliations or associations with universities, political parties, or social, scientific or government groups? Any arguments or conclusions should be supported by evidence and verifiable sources.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/evaluating/evaluating-websites.php

title: Research evaluation tools & checklists
description: The following tools have been created to assist in determining the legitimacy of a research study. Using these tools to evaluate the researcher’s methodology can help you assess to what degree a study is valid, and whether or not the results gathered are both unbiased and useful.

CASP checklist
CDC TREND checklist
STROBE checklists
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/evaluating/tools.php

title: How to identify Open Access journals in your area of research
description: Introduction

This directory can help you identify potential Open Access journals in your field. Inclusion in this directory, however, does not guarantee that the journal is of high quality. Be sure to keep in mind the guidelines on how to recognize trusted Open Access publishers when evaluating journals that you have found.

For more help in identifying OA journals, see the page "Finding OA journals in which to publish"
Back to top
Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ)

You can browse the DOAJ's different subject areas by navigating the subject section on the side bar. 
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/finding/open-access-journals.php

title: How to find primary sources
description: Introduction

Primary sources are used across every academic discipline in one form or another. They are original materials that contribute first-hand evidence to research, unmediated by external interpretations or evaluations. Primary sources are determined by their content, rather than by their form, ranging from print to digital, in various media.

This guide to finding primary sources will lead you through the process of understanding what primary sources are, how to find them, and how to make the most of them in your research.

What are primary sources?

A primary source is any original work that is unmediated by external analysis, evaluation, or interpretation. A secondary source is typically an external study of primary sources, usually written retrospectively. A tertiary source typically amalgamates the content found in primary and secondary sources and is less critical or argumentative than secondary sources.

How do you know if something is a primary source? A primary source is often…

    A first-hand account or an original work
    Original in content, rather than an analysis or interpretation of another subject
    Contemporary with the subject, topic or event you are exploring

Types of primary sources include…

    Audio recordings
    Artifacts
    Books
    Diaries
    Interviews
    Government documents
    Laboratory notes
    Letters
    Magazines
    Maps
    Music
    Newspapers
    Paintings
    Pamphlets
    Patents
    Photographs
    Plays
    Poetry
    Survey research
    Videos
    And more!

Specific examples of primary sources include…

    Audio recordings: field recordings of birdsongs
    Artifact: a piece of Ottoman pottery
    Book: Plato’s Republic
    Government document: Indian Act (R.S.C., 1985, c. I-5)
    Music: Beethoven’s Symphony No. 9 (or "the Choral")
    Paintings: Vincent Van Gogh’s Starry Night
    Patent: Mobile Robot System, CA Patent No. 2822980, 2013
    And more!

Note: Depending on the context, items that are traditionally not considered primary sources may be treated as such. For example, a journal article (traditionally a secondary source) about the War of 1812 could be a primary source if one is researching how that war is understood in existing scholarship. Additionally, a textbook (traditionally seen as a tertiary source) on Aboriginal culture could be a primary source if examining representations of Aboriginal culture in high school curricula.

Searching the library catalogue

Good for many topics and disciplines – the Sofia Discovery tool (the library catalogue) includes: correspondence, diaries, film, journals, pamphlets, print newspapers, novels, standards, treatises, and similar items.

These types of primary sources are often subject subheadings in the catalogue. Try searching with your topic keywords and one of those material-type subheadings also as a keyword. For example, search “john locke AND correspondence” for John Locke’s letters, or try “women AND diaries” to find the personal diaries of various women.

For more information on searching the library catalogue for primary sources, see the Primary Sources Guide for History.

Searching databases & websites

Below are various types of commonly used primary sources. If you don’t see the type of primary source you are looking for, see also the Primary Sources Guide for History, and the library Research Guide for your subject.

Books, plays & poetry

Early English Books Online (EEBO) (is a full-text and full-image database of books printed in the British Isles, British America, and other countries from 1475 to 1700)

Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO) (contains significant English-language and foreign-language titles printed in Great Britain and the Americas in the eighteenth century)

Literature Online (LION) (contains drama, poetry, and prose from around the world)

American Film Scripts Online (part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections -- contains scripts with detailed, fielded information on the scenes, characters and people related to the scripts, which are authorized versions of the texts)

See also the Finding Primary Sources: Literary Works guide and the Finding Primary Sources: Non-Literary Works guide.

Canadian history

Early Canadiana Online (contains material from the seventeenth to twentieth centuries with an Aboriginal Studies Collection covering from 1558 to 1900)

Early Encounters in North America (covers material from 1534-1850)

Library and Archives Canada (contains Canadian art, maps, government documents, and more)

See also Canadian History Resources.

Diaries & letters

British and Irish Women’s Letters and Diaries (part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections – contains the personal writings of women from England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales, spanning more than 400 years)

North American Immigrant Letters, Diaries and Oral Histories (part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections – contains 100,000 pages of material, including Ellis Island Oral Histories, audio files, scrapbooks, previously unpublished diaries (some translations), autobiographies, oral histories, political cartoons and more)

North American Women’s Letters and Diaries (part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections – contains letters and diaries of American and Canadian women, including previously unpublished manuscripts)

Images

ArtStor (contains images that cover materials across cultures, disciplines, and time periods)

Oxford Art Online (choose “Search Only: Images” – contains art reference titles, such as the Oxford Companion to Western Art and Grove Art Online)

Wilson Art Suite (includes the 3 following databases: Art FullText, Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals, and Art Index Retrospective)

See also the Finding Images guide.

Government information

Canadian Public Policy Collection (contains electronic monographs and reports from Canadian public policy institutes, government agencies, advocacy groups, university research centres, think-tanks, and other public interest groups)

Catalog of U.S. Government Publications (contains U.S. federal publications since 1976)

Publications gouvernementales du Québec en ligne (contains Québec government publications submitted to the Bibliothèque et archives nationales du Québec by legal deposit since 2001)

Publications Canada (contains official Government of Canada documents)

United Nations Treaty Collection (UNTC) (contains various categories of treaty-related data)

See also the Online Government Information guide, and other Government Information databases.

Music & recordings

Garland encyclopedia of world music online (includes audio examples, illustrations, photographs, maps, drawings, and more)

Music Online: Classical Scores Library (contains classical scores, manuscripts, and previously unpublished material)

Naxos Music Library (provides a comprehensive collection of classical music)

Smithsonian Global Sound for Libraries (includes the published recordings owned by the non-profit Smithsonian Folkways Recordings label and the archival audio collections of various labels)

See also the Finding music, sounds and images guide.

Newspapers & magazines

American Periodicals (contains digitized American magazines and journals from the colonial period to the twentieth century)

Canadian Newsstand (includes full-text Canadian daily newspapers, but excludes illustrations, graphs, classified ads, advertisements, and stock market reports)

Eureka.cc (provides full-text access to English and French Canadian newspapers, magazines, newswires, blogs and broadcast transcripts, and some international and U.S. coverage)

Factiva (contains full-text of selected international newspapers and newswires, broadcast transcripts, magazines, photos, and business information sources)

Historical Newspapers and Magazines (list contains selected newspapers and magazines, both Canadian and International, including databases Financial Times Historical Archive, Paper of Record, ProQuest Historical Newspapers, and more)

For more contemporary newspapers and magazines, see the Journalism Research Guide. For more historical newspapers and magazines, see the Newspapers guide in the History Subject Guide.

Videos

Alexander Street Video (covers all Alexander Street Press video titles that Concordia subscribes to or owns, including Dance in Video, Ethnographic Video online, Theatre in Video, and more)

CBC Digital Archives (includes audio and video from the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation)

NFB Campus (features films, excerpts, trailers and interactive works produced by the National Film Board of Canada)

See also the How to find videos guide.

Evaluating primary sources

Consider the following aspects in order to help assess the quality, reliability, and value of a primary source to your research:

    Who wrote or created it?
    What was the writer or creator’s intent? Their argument?
    Was it created during the same time as the topic in question?
    Has it been edited or modified? By whom? When? Why?
    Is it an original version of the work? Is it revised? Revised by whom? In what ways?
    Is it a reproduction? Are the reproduction details evident, allowing you to assess its authenticity?
    Who is its target audience?
    Is it a commentary on another topic? Does it refer to other items or resources?
    Do you think it is a credible piece of “evidence”? Why? What objections could possibly be raised about its credibility?

And remember: primary sources can (and often do) still contain bias or perspective so approach any primary material critically and evaluate it on your own terms as it relates to your project.

See also the Primary Sources Guide for History for more tips about how to evaluate primary sources.

Citing primary sources

See the Citation and Style Guides for detailed examples and links to additional resources according to citation style.

Additional resources

Need more help? See the Ask a Librarian service for information.

Helpful external primary sources guides:

    Memorial University of Newfoundland Libraries webpage with specific subsections for primary sources according to chronology and geography
    University at Albany, SUNY, University Libraries webpage with information about primary sources for the sciences
    University of British Columbia library guide wiki dedicated to primary sources with subsections organized by discipline


link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/finding/primary-sources.php

title: Statistics and Data
description: Canada: Statistics Canada

Statistics Canada
Statistics Canada catalogues and publications

    Search Statistics Canada's current publications and research papers in print and electronic formats.
    Search Statistics Canada Library's online catalogue for current and discontinued publications.
    The Daily: official release of Statistics Canada data. Includes the latest Indicators on Canada’s economy, land, people and the State.

Census of Population

    Latest Census: 2021 Census
    Previous censuses (2016, 2011, 2006, 2001, 1996)
    Community Profiles. 2021 / 2016 / 2011 / 2006 / 2001 / 1996
    Contains free tabular data for all communities in Canada (cities, town, villages, Indian Reserves and Indian Settlements, etc.) on population, education, income, families and dwellings, births and deaths. A map of the area is available.
    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users Historical Statistics of Canada: from Confederation in 1867 to the mid 1970s. See also: the first and second editions (in print)
    Census of Canada - Digitized Historical Census files (Library and Archives Canada): from 1825 - 1900's
    Census of Canada (University of Toronto Map and Data Library): Very extensive guide to data tables, maps and digitized (pdf) volumes.
    Censuses of Canada, 1665-1871 (Queen's University Library)

Data tables and databases

    Search Statistics Canada's Data Tables
    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users Canadian Census Analyser (via CHASS): a search and retrieval system for the Census of Canada back to 1961.
    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users Odesi: Odesi is a portal giving access to a wide range of statistical data including public microdata files from Statistics Canada.
    Other statistical databases, from the Databases by subject page.
    See also: Government Information

Governmental sites for cities, provinces & territories

    Montreal: Montréal en statistiques
    Quebec: Institut de la statistique du Quebec
    Links from Stats Can to Provinces and territories

Back to top
United States

    U.S. Census Bureau: including QuickFacts
    Federal Government and Statistical Agencies: links to key federal agencies that may provide statistics.
    National Historical Geographic Information System (NHGIS) provides easy access to summary tables and time series of population, housing, agriculture, and economic data, along with GIS-compatible boundary files, for years from 1790 through the present and for all levels of U.S. census geography, including states, counties, tracts, and blocks.
    U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics: including Economy at a Glance | Consumer Expenditure Surveys.
    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users Historical Statistics of the United States: comprehensive statistical portrait of the U.S. from colonial times to the present.

Back to top
World
International comparative statistics

    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users UNData: official statistics produced by countries and compiled by the UN data system; indicators, estimates, projections.
    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users World Bank: World Development Indicators (WDI) | Global Financial Development | DataBank (The World Bank) | World Bank Open Data.
    EuroStat: European Union.
    Nationmaster.com: An independent website which compiles statistics from such sources as the CIA World Factbook, United Nations, World Health Organization, and the World Bank.
    International statistical organizations: compiled by Statistics Canada.
    United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD)

Individual governments

    International Statistical Agencies on the Web: University of Wisconsin.

More sources of world statistics

    Population Reference Bureau: population and health data.

Back to top
Beyond 20/20

    Beyond 20/20: This browser is available on public workstations at the Library. This browser is needed to view some statistical data, including much of what is included in Odesi. It can also be downloaded for free from Statistics Canada.

Back to top
What is the Data Liberation Initiative (DLI)?

The Data Liberation Initiative is a Statistics Canada program established in cooperation with various academic organizations, through which students, faculty and staff of Canadian universities get enhanced access to specialized electronic data, especially microdata. For more information on the DLI program and a list of available products, see the DLI official website.
Back to top
What kind of data is available through the DLI?

There are two forms of numeric data: aggregate data and microdata (raw data). For a definition of these terms, see the DLI Survival Guide. Although some versions of the data may already have been published in print publications and/or on Statistics Canada's Web site, sometimes with analysis, the DLI sources provide microdata so that researchers can perform their own tabulations or analysis.

Aggregate data is provided in formats such as Beyond 20/20, Excel, and other formats which allow the display and manipulation of data into new tables.

Microdata is provided in SPSS, SAS or other database-compatible formats for original statistical analysis. Knowledge of statistical techniques is necessary to access and manipulate the data.

The DLI also provides geographic data files in GIS format such as ArcReader and MapInfo.

DLI products complement the standard statistics available through Statistics Canada's regular channels.
Back to top
How do I access DLI data?
Through the web

Special consortium agreements with other institutions have made it possible for Concordia faculty, students and staff to access much of the DLI data through the Web, remotely, through common Web interfaces.
Aggregate data:

    Search Statistics Canada's Data Tables
    Canadian Census Analyser (also includes Census microdata files, and includes census back to 1971)
    BCI's Statistical and Geographic Data page: (Detailed tables usually not available from Statistics Canada's data page)

Microdata

    <odesi> - includes Public Use Microdata Files (PUMF) for the Census and some Statistics Canada's surveys as well as aggregate data from multiple sources).

Geospatial data

    Canadian Census Geographic Files
    Note: More geospatial files are available from from the Concordia Library's Geospatial Data subject guide

On request (DLI website: FTP and Web collection)

Some data can only be obtained on request, by the DLI Librarian.

For more information, see the DLI web site

List of upcoming product releases
Back to top
U.S. and International Microdata

    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users ICPSR: a large data repository for the social sciences. Focuses on U.S. topics, but international and Canadian datasets are also included.
    IPUMS: provides census and survey data from around the world integrated across time and space. IPUMS integration and documentation makes it easy to study change, conduct comparative research, merge information across data types, and analyze individuals within family and community contexts.
    GESIS (Leibniz Institute for Social Sciences): Major European social sciences research institute. Datasets are available on a variety of socio-economic topics of European and international interest.

Back to top
DLI contact person

To request DLI products, or for more information, send an email to GIS and Data Services Librarian Alex Guindon at: alex.guindon@concordia.ca
link: https://library.concordia.ca/find/statistics.php

title: Course readings and textbooks for students
description: Course textbooks

Course textbooks will be placed in the Course Reserves Room at the Webster Library or Vanier Library. Books are organized by call number. To find the call number of the book, please look up your course in the course reserves system.
call number information in course reserves

Alternatively, if you know the title of the book, search for it in Sofia, the Library catalogue, and look for the call number.
course reserves information in Sofia

Many courses have several sections taught by different instructors and may use different textbooks. Please consult the reading list you were given for the course to identify a book your instructor wants you to use.

Please note that:

    Hard copies of reserve materials are kept in at the Course Reserve Rooms in the Webster and Vanier libraries
    They must be borrowed from inside the Course Reserve Rooms
    They must be returned to the service point from which they were borrowed
    Due to high demand, course reserves:
        Have shorter loan periods (e.g. 3 hrs, 1 day); an item on reserve with a loan period of 3 hours that is borrowed less than 3 hours before the Circulation Desk closes may be kept overnight, but will need to be returned by 11 am the next day.
        Must be returned before they can be borrowed again
        Incur higher fines. Note that reserve items due while the library is closed, will not start incurring fines until after 11 am the next day.


link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/textbooks/?guid=textbooks

title: Course readings and textbooks for students
description: Online course readings

Upon request of the course instructor, the Library provides online access to course readings to all students enrolled in the class.
Log into the Course Reserves system to access your course readings. 


 

    Once you log into the Course Reserves system you will see a list of all courses you are currently enrolled in.
    Select the course you want and check if your professor posted any readings for that course.

The online course readings will be available in the Course Reserves system only if your professor has requested them.

After the end of the exam period, your course will no longer be available in the Course Reserves system. If you require extended access to your course readings, please send an email request to library.reserves@concordia.ca.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/textbooks/index.php?guid=online-readings

title: Theses, dissertations, and research papers 
description: Concordia University theses

The Concordia Library has a copy of almost every thesis and dissertation submitted to the University as a condition for the award of a graduate degree, as well as copies of many research papers and graduate projects. Please note that non-print materials (film, slides, etc.) for theses submitted in 1967–2010 are not available online in Spectrum, Concordia University's institutional repository1.
Browse Concordia theses in Spectrum

Spectrum, Concordia's open access repository, includes theses from 1967–present. You can browse by year, department, author, or document type. Spectrum will enable you to download the full text, data, videos, or other files associated with the work.
Search for Concordia theses in the Sofia Discovery tool

Concordia theses held by the Library can be located using the Sofia Discovery tool.

Using the Advanced Search, combine any search with a Title Search of the phrase Concordia Theses, Research Papers

 
Examples

    By Author: If you know the name of the student who wrote the thesis, enter this in the Author search index field.
    Search Index set to Author to search by thesis author
    By title: If you know the title of the thesis, enter this in the Title search index field.
    Search Index set to Title to search by thesis title
    By subject or keyword: Enter any topical keywords in the Keyword search index field.
    Example: Literature
    Search Index set to Keyword to search for theses by subject or keyword
    By department/program: To search for theses by department, enter keywords from the name of the faculty or department in the Corporate/Conference Name field. Please note that department and faculty names have changed over time, so you should use the name of the department or faculty at the time the thesis or research paper was submitted. You can also search under multiple names as in the example below:
    Example: Department of Creative Arts Therapies, Department of Art Education and Art Therapy
    Search Index set to corporate conference name field to search by department or program

If you are uncertain about your search strategy, use our Ask a Librarian service.
Theses from other universities
Databases and other electronic sources

    ProQuest Dissertations & Theses 1861 onward
    Provides citations to over two million doctoral dissertations and masters theses published in North America and Europe, covering many more doctoral dissertations than masters theses. More than 600,000 titles are available full text (mostly from 1997 onward).
    Please note: From 2005 onwards, Canadian theses cannot be searched by the name of a thesis advisor.

    NDLTD Global ETD Search
    The Networked Digital Library of Theses and Dissertations (NDLTD)'s search service allows researchers to find electronic theses and dissertations (ETDs) based on keyword, date, institution, language and subject. The index is based on a growing collection of approximately 4 million ETDs from more than 200 universities on all continents. Records with links to documents from originating institutions are collected daily.

    Theses Canada 1965 onward (coverage varies)
    Includes references to masters theses and doctoral dissertations accepted by Canadian universities.

    Open Access Theses and Dissertations (OATD)
    OATD indexes over 1.5 million electronic theses and dissertations (ETDs) from over 600 colleges, universities, and research institutions around the world. Links to full text available.

    OpenDOAR: Directory of Open Access Repositories
    Some universities require that students deposit their theses in an institutional repository, such as DSpace@MIT. Use this directory to locate the university, if available, and then search for the author or title of the thesis.

    WorldCat
    Use the Advanced Search feature and under SUBTYPE limits, change the drop-down menu from Any Content to Thesis/dissertation.

    EThOS - Electronic Theses Online Service
    Digitized, Open Access (freely accessible) theses from all UK higher education institutions.

    SUDOC (Union catalogue of university libraries in France)
    Indexes, theses, and dissertations from universities in France. Choose "Recherche avancée," then under "type de publication," select "Thèses."

    DART-Europe E-theses Portal
    Portal for European Electronic Theses and Dissertations. Also browsable by institution.

    Trove
    Theses produced by the graduate research students at Australian universities, some of which are freely accessible.

    University library catalogues
    To find information on a thesis submitted at a specific university, search their library catalogue.

    Subject databases
    In addition to listing journal articles, some subject databases will include theses that fall within their subject coverage.

If the thesis you are looking for is not in the Sofia Discovery tool or is not freely available in ProQuest Dissertations & Theses or in Theses Canada, you can request an interlibrary loan (ILL) whereby we will attempt to obtain a copy from another library. You may also purchase a copy of a thesis online through ProQuest Dissertations & Theses.

To obtain more information or to place an interlibrary loan request, consult the Interlibrary Loans page.

 

1. A master copy of the thesis or dissertation is kept in Special Collections at the Vanier Library along with any available non-print components (film, slides, etc.). For most theses submitted prior to 2011, a circulating copy is available in either the Webster or Vanier Library, while an archival copy along with any accompanying non-print material (film, slides, etc.) is kept in Special Collections. These copies can be located using the Sofia Discovery tool. Additionally, most theses and some research papers are also available in digital format and can either be viewed online or downloaded using Spectrum.
 
link: https://library.concordia.ca/find/theses.php

title: Usage rights for electronic resources
description: Usage Rights Database

Concordia Library’s Usage Rights Database tracks key licensed usage rights for the electronic resources the library subscribes to in a centralized database, and displays those rights in a standardized manner.

When preparing course material for e-reserves or for a course pack, you will be able to verify if you may or may not include a journal article from a particular database or package.
Back to top
Why do I need the Usage Rights Database?

Use of all electronic resources subscribed to by the Concordia Library are governed by licensing agreements that restrict use to Concordia students, faculty and staff, for educational or research purposes only. As an authorized Concordia user it is your responsibility to ensure that you always use these resources according to the conditions stipulated in the license agreements (permitted and restricted uses).

The Usage Rights Database is essential for the following reasons:

    Multitude of licenses: Concordia University subscribes to hundreds of full-text databases and packages (journal articles, newspaper articles and e-books). For each of these products, Concordia University signs a license with specific terms of use that allows students, faculty and staff to use the materials in these resources for educational or research purposes only.
    Accurate information: It is not always easy to find out what rights are included in each license, but the Usage Rights Database keeps track of exactly what is permitted under the terms of the licensing agreements.
    License compliance: There can be different rights for the same journal found in different databases/packages. The Usage Rights Database is useful when choosing which articles can be included into course reserves for example. Failure to follow the terms of use in licensing agreements allows publishers to suspend access for the entire Concordia University Community.
    Visibility: The usage rights for our databases/packages is readily accessible and easy to understand.

Back to top
How do I access the usage rights for full-text articles?

When searching in databases for full-text articles, once you click on the Findit @ Concordia button button, a new browser window will open bringing you into the Sofia Discovery tool. There will be a list of the packages where the article can be retrieved. A "Notes" link will display under each pakcage name. When opened, the notes field will show the licensing information for that specific package. licensing information for articles in the Sofia Discovery tool
Back to top
How do I access the usage rights for journal titles?

When you enter a journal name on the E-Journals webpage, a “Notes” link will display under each package name. When opened, the notes field will show the licensing information for that specific package.Authorized users for journal packages in the Sofia Discovery tool
Back to top
How do I access the usage rights databases?

When searching the Sofia Discovery tool for a database, looking in the "Access Online" section of the full record will show a "Notes & License Terms" link. When opened, the the licensing information for that specific database wil be displayed.
licensing information for databases in the Sofia Discovery tool licensing information for databases in the Sofia Discovery tool
Back to top
How do I access the usage rights on the library website?

On the Databases by Subject webpage, there is a link on the left-hand side towards the "Conditions of Use" webpage. And at the bottom of the Databases: Conditions of Use webpage, there is a link towards the Usage Rights Database homepage.
Back to top
What are the categories of usage?

For each license that we sign at Concordia University, the five most important categories of usage rights will be clearly indicated. Here is an example of a license record for the Cambridge Journals package that can be found in the Usage Rights Database:

Usage Rights for Cambridge Journals

In the example above for the Cambridge Journals package, any of its articles could be hosted in an online course reserves system, or added to a course management system (such as Moodle or First Class) or to a course pack, and linking to an article in a Cambridge journal or printing a copy of it for personal use is all permitted by the license.
Back to top
What is in the database?

Only information that is contained in the license agreement will be found in the Usage Rights Database. These conditions of use generally cover the permitted and restricted uses of the licensed material for online course reserves, course management systems, course packs, linking and making copies. For information about matters that are not covered by the Usage Rights Database, please refer to the Copyright Guide or the Copyright Guide for Thesis Preparation.

The Usage Rights Database is a work in progress and licensing information will be added to it on a continuous basis. Each license (covering a database or a package containing thousands of journal titles) falls into one of these categories:

    CRKN consortial licenses (negotiated at the national level)
    BCI consortial licenses (negotiated at the provincial level here in Quebec)
    Concordia licenses (our locally negotiated licenses)

If you have any questions or comments, we encourage you to contact your subject librarian or please email lib-usagerights@concordia.ca

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/finding/usage-rights.php

title: How to find videos 
description: Medial

Browse Medial, our in-house streaming platform for feature films, shorts, documentaries and experimental videos acquired by Concordia Library. Log in with your netname and password.
Back to top
Search the Sofia Discovery tool (DVD, VHS and streaming videos)
To find DVD, VHS and selected streaming videos* in the Sofia Discovery tool, enter keywords in the search box.

*Note: More streaming videos can be found directly in databases or on the web.
Back to top
Where are the videos located?

DVD/VHS videos are available from the Circulation Desks at the Webster and Vanier Libraries. Others may only be available at the Visual Collections Repository in the Faculty of Fine Arts. Streaming videos can be accessed from computers on and off campus.
Back to top
Online video databases

Please see our list of online video databases.
Back to top
Free online videos

Here is a brief listing of some free websites offering access to online videos on a variety of subjects.

    American Memory (Library of Congress)
    	
    American Rhetoric: The Power of Oratory in the United States
    	Database of over 5000 full text, audio and video versions of public speeches, sermons, and lectures.
    American Rhetoric: The Power of Oratory in the United States
    	
    Annenberg Learner
    	Educational website with free videos designed for teaching various subjects. Look for the 'VoD' icon to view free online videos.
    Annenberg Learner
    	
    Archives Radio-Canada
    	
    CBC Digital Archives
    	
    CBC Digital Archives
    	Includes audio and video from the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.
    Google Videos
    	Use the advanced search to limit by file type, domain, language, or film duration.
    Google Videos
    	
    Internet Moving Images Archive
    	This library contains thousands of digital movies which range from classic full-length films, to daily alternative news broadcasts, to videos of every genre.
    Internet Moving Images Archive
    	
    Les Archives de Radio-Canada
    	Video and audio archives of Radio-Canada.
    Library and Archives Canada's YouTube playlist on short films
    	Stream early Canadian short films.
    Library of Congress Digital Collections
    	American Memory provides free and open access to written and spoken words, sound recordings, and still and moving images, which document the American experience.
    Library of Congress YouTube Channel
    	
    Library of Congress YouTube Channel‬‏
    	
    Macaulay Library: Animal Sounds and Video Catalog
    	
    Macaulay Library: Animal Sounds and Video Catalog
    	The Macaulay Library at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology includes online streaming of natural audio and video archive of animal behaviour.
    Med-mem: Mediterranean Memory
    	Site only available over http

Back to top
Visual Collections Repository (VCR), Faculty of Fine Arts

Videos and other media items are also available in Concordia's Visual Collections Repository (VCR). These can be found by searching the Sofia catalogue.

Contact 514-848-2424, ext. 3445 for more information.
Back to top
Searching by director, producer, actor or production company

Step 1: Search by Author on the Advanced Search screen in the Sofia Discovery tool.
Selecting Author search index in Sofia Discovery tool advanced search

    Producers, directors, writers and main performers may be searched as authors in the library catalogue, for example:
        Hitchcock, Alfred
        Spielberg, Steven
        Hepburn, Katharine
    Production companies may also be searched as authors in the library catalogue, for example:
        National Film Board of Canada
        Vidéographe
        Paramount Pictures

Step 2: On the results screen, in the Format filter on the left hand side of the screen, select the appropriate material type (example: DVD Video, eVideo, VHS Video).
Limiting to video format in Sofia Discovery tool search results

See also:

    Searching for film and video author using Sofia [YouTube]
    Searching for film and video: filtering by format or by collection using Sofia [YouTube]

Back to top
Searching by title or series

Step 1: Search by Title on the Advanced Search screen in the Sofia Discovery tool.
Selecting Title search index in Sofia Discovery tool advanced search

    Search by title if the exact title is known, for example:
        An inconvenient truth
        Maltese falcon
        Manufacturing consent
    A series title can also be searched as a title, for example:
        Portrait of an artist
        Films for Humanities

Step 2: On the results screen, in the Format filter on the left hand side of the screen, select the appropriate material type (example: DVD Video, eVideo, VHS Video).
Limiting to video format in Sofia Discovery tool search results

See also:

    Searching for film and video by title using Sofia [YouTube]
    Searching for film and video: filtering by format or by collection using Sofia [YouTube]

Back to top
Searching by genre, technique or form

Step 1: Do a genre index search in the Sofia Discovery tool.

    Search for the genre heading - preceded by the genre index code ge: - to find works by genre, technique or form, for example:
        ge:Adventure films
        ge:Animated films
        ge:Children's films
        ge:Comedy films
        ge:Documentary films
        ge:Experimental films
        ge:Feature films
        ge:Horror films
        ge:Musicals
        ge:Silent films
    Closed-captioned materials is listed under the subject heading "Video recordings for the hearing impaired."

Step 2: On the results screen, in the Format filter on the left hand side of the screen, select the appropriate material type (example: DVD Video, eVideo, VHS Video).
Limiting to video format in Sofia Discovery tool search results

See also:

    Searching for film and video by subject or genre using Sofia [YouTube]
    Searching for film and video: filtering by format or by collection using Sofia [YouTube]

Back to top
Searching by topic

A. When the producer, director or title is not known, search by keyword to find relevant material.

Step 1: Do a Keyword Search in the Sofia Discovery tool.

    Examples
        canada AND history
        women AND biography
        ("world war" OR "vietnam war") NOT "feature films"

Step 2: On the results screen, in the Format filter on the left hand side of the screen, select the appropriate material type (example: DVD Video, eVideo, VHS Video).
Limiting to video format in Sofia Discovery tool search results

See also:

    Searching for film and video by keyword using Sofia [YouTube]
    Searching for film and video: filtering by format or by collection using Sofia [YouTube]


B. If you have identified appropriate subject terms, use them to find relevant films and documentaries.

Step 1: Search by Subject on the Advanced Search screen in the Sofia Discovery tool.
Selecting Subject search index in Sofia Discovery tool advanced search

    Examples
        Inuit
        Civil rights
        Trudeau, Pierre Elliott

Step 2: On the results screen, in the Format filter on the left hand side of the screen, select the appropriate material type (example: DVD Video, eVideo, VHS Video).
Limiting to video format in Sofia Discovery tool search results

See also:

    Searching for film and video by subject or genre using Sofia [YouTube]
    Searching for film and video: filtering by format or by collection using Sofia [YouTube]

Back to top
To view a complete list of videos and DVDs

    Enter * (one asterisk) in the Sofia Discovery tool search box
    On the results screen, in the Format filter on the left hand side of the screen, select the appropriate material type (example: DVD Video, eVideo, VHS Video). 
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/finding/videos.php

title: How to use BrowZine
description: What is BrowZine

BrowZine is a library-subscribed service that helps you to browse, read, and monitor e-journals available through Concordia University Library. BrowZine's interface makes it easy to explore and read your favourite journals. With an account you can also create a bookshelf to help monitor journals and save articles to read later.

The video below describes BrowZines features in more detail.

Video transcript
BrowZine from Third Iron makes it easy for you to browse, read and monitor your favorite scholarly journals available from your library.
BrowZine is very visual and intuitive to use. This short video will provide an overview of its most important features.
Think of BrowZine as a scholarly journal newsstand. You can look up your favorite journal by name…
… or you can explore the collection by subject and then sort the results of what you find by A-Z or
Scimago Journal Rank to see the most prestigious journals first in the listing.
Once in a title, you can navigate through the current issue or explore back issues and click through to read the full text.
Some authentication step may be required to gain access to the full text and BrowZine will guide you through these steps.
If you’ve found a journal you want to monitor for new articles, simply add it to my Bookshelf.
To do so, you’ll be required to sign in to your BrowZine account.
Simply follow the prompts to register for a new account if you have not already done so.
Once signed in, titles will be added to My Bookshelf and you are then free to arrange them and customize your My Bookshelf area in any way you choose.
As shown in this existing account, once a title has been added to my bookshelf, titles will be tracked for you going forward
meaning that all new articles from this title will gain an “unread” indicator noting that you have not yet reviewed that article.
You can easily clear these individually…. by issue…. by journal…. or for all titles at once in the Settings Menu.
This state-of-the-art system helps you stay up to date with new articles released in your favorite journals.
If you find articles you’d like to make sure you have at your fingertips for future use,
you can save them to the My Articles area of your BrowZine Account… and organize them into collections.
In addition, you can export articles either from My Articles or from the table of contents screen directly to your favorite citation manager.
BrowZine is not only available on the web at browzine.com, but also for iOS, Android and Kindle Fire devices.
Data saved in your BrowZine account will synchronize automatically between all of these platforms.
Simply search for BrowZine in the respective store to download the app and get started.
All the same functionality discussed in this tutorial on the web version of BrowZine is available on mobile devices
in addition to off-line reading of saved articles and receiving notifications of new articles on your lock screen.
Using BrowZine is a great way to stay connected easily to scholarly literature.
If you have any questions, you can also find more information in the support pages at support.thirdiron.com.


Where do I use BrowZine

You can use BrowZine from a browser by going to https://browzine.com/libraries/119.

BrowZine is also available as via a dedicated app for:

    iOS from the App Store
    Android from Google Play
    Kindle Fire from Amazon

To make full use of our journal subscriptions, select "Concordia University Canada" as your library.

How do I use BrowZine

BrowZine's interface is easy to use:

    Visit the BrowZine website or download the mobile app
    Find a journal by title, subject or ISSN, or browse the subject categories
    Click on the journal cover to see the contents of the latest issue, or select another issue to browse by date and volume/issue

If you wish to make use of the "My Bookshelf" or "My Articles" features, create an account by clicking on either link at the top of the screen and follow the instructions to "Sign Up". BrowZine account features

BrowZine in Sofia Discovery

BrowZine's LibKey service works with Sofia Discovery and provides direct access to PDFs for many articles from the result list.

Clicking on the 'Access Online' followed by the 'View PDF' link will open the PDF directly. The article can still be seen on the publisher's platform by clicking on the 'View full text' link.
BrowZine access online button in Sofia Discovery BrowZine View PDF button in Sofia Discovery

The LibKey service also provides the option to browse articles from the same issue or latest issue of the article's journal on the BrowZine platform. From the 'More from this Journal' section, click on either the 'Explore articles from this issue' or 'Explore articles from most recent issue'.
BrowZine more from this journal links in Sofia Discovery

Getting help

If you're having any problems with BrowZine, please contact the Ask a Librarian service.

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/using/browzine.php

title: How to download ebooks
description: Introduction

Authorized users of Concordia University Library can download selected ebooks in PDF format onto their personal computers from the Ebook Central and EBSCOhost platforms. These downloaded ebook files can then be transferred onto a variety of mobile reading devices (including iPads) for offline use. Ebooks can also be downloaded directly to iPad tablets that have the appropriate app installed. Some titles in Ebook Central and EBSCOhost are unavailable for downloading. Users must be connected to the Concordia network in order to access downloadable ebooks.

Note: The instructions below currently apply only to the Ebook Central and EBSCOhost platforms. Many other ebook platforms accessible to Concordia users permit downloading and viewing of ebooks in standard PDF format.
Back to top
Ebook downloads with Adobe Digital Editions

Currently, selected ebooks accessed on the Ebook Central and EBSCOhost platforms can be downloaded in their entirety in PDF format by authorized Concordia Library users, using a free software package called Adobe Digital Editions.

Download Adobe Digital Editions.

This software enforces Digital Rights Management (DRM) on the downloaded files, restricting the time period during which the ebook can be used, as well as the number of devices (6) to which it can be transferred; there may also be restrictions on the number of pages that can be printed.

When the "lending term" for the ebook has expired, the file remains on the computer or mobile device but can no longer be opened. It is not possible to renew the "loan", but the ebook may be downloaded again and used for another lending term. If you are finished using a downloaded ebook before the lending term expires, you can "return" the file from Adobe Digital Editions. In cases where access to an ebook is limited to a restricted number of users, "returning" the file will allow another user to view or download it.
Back to top
Downloading ebook files from ebook platforms

In order to download ebooks, you will need to set up a free account on the appropriate ebook platform (Ebook Central or EBSCOhost). Each platform requires its own account, and has its own procedure for selecting ebooks for downloading.

Once you have selected a title for downloading on the ebook platform, you may be asked to sign in to your platform account. When the download is activated, a control file with the .acsm filename extension will be made available for download. This file contains information that will govern the use of the actual ebook PDF file on your computer. If you have installed Adobe Digital Editions, opening this .acsm file instructs the program to download the ebook PDF file and open it in the Adobe Digital Editions interface.
Back to top
Transferring ebook files to authorized devices

Downloaded ebook files can be transferred to mobile devices via a free personal account (Adobe ID) that you set up with Adobe. This account can be created during Adobe Digital Editions installation, or afterwards from the program interface using the Authorize Computer… command on the Library menu. Once this is done, up to 6 mobile devices may be authorized with the same Adobe ID, allowing the ebook file to be transferred from the computer onto which it was downloaded. Some devices (such as the Sony Reader or Kobo eReader) can load the ebook PDF file directly; others, such as the iPad, iPhone or iPod, require an app such as Bluefire Reader in order to read the ebook.

While a mobile device can be authorized under different Adobe IDs, it is not possible to change the Adobe ID on the downloading computer.

In most cases, mobile ebook reader devices connected to your computer will be automatically detected by Adobe Digital Editions and displayed as "bookshelves" on the interface. To transfer an ebook PDF file to the device, drag and drop the ebook onto the appropriate "bookshelf". When using an app such as Bluefire Reader to view ebooks on Apple products, however, you will need to use iTunes to transfer ebook files: go to the Synch> Apps page and scroll down to see the available options for File Sharing. When adding ebooks to be transferred to the mobile device, make sure to choose the PDF file, not the .acsm file. By default, downloaded ebook PDF files are saved to the My Digital Editions folder.
Back to top
Downloading ebook files directly to an iPad tablet

Alternatively, ebooks can be downloaded directly via a wireless connection to an iPad on which the Bluefire Reader app has been installed.

Download Bluefire Reader (via iTunes).

When the download is activated from the ebook platform, you will see a prompt to open the .acsm control file in Bluefire Reader. Use this command to download the ebook file and open it. If the app has not already been authorized, you will be prompted to specify your Adobe ID. Once the file is downloaded, it will be available in the iPad's Bluefire folder.
Back to top
Further information

Platform-Specific Help Pages

    Downloading ebooks on Ebook Central
    Downloading ebooks on EBSCOhost.

Adobe Digital Editions Support Pages:

    Adobe Digital Editions Help
    Adobe Digital Editions FAQ
    Adobe Digital Editions Support

Back to top
FAQ

How does the library know when my borrowing time is over?
There is metadata in the PDF files, managed by Adobe Digital Editions. Metadata is necessary because of the terms of the lending agreement and copyright.

Do I have to be connected to the Internet to read the ebooks?
No, once you transfer the PDF to your mobile device, you no longer need to be connected to the Internet to read the ebook.

Are there any audio books available?
No, there are no audio books available through the library at this time through Concordia Library. However, the BANQ has close to 1200 audio books available through their website: https://banq.overdrive.com/

If I just want to read the ebook on my computer or on a library computer, do I need to download anything?
No, you can read the ebook online.

Can I use a computer in the library to download the ebook to transfer to my portable device?
No, you must use your own computer to download Adobe Digital Editions and the ebook to transfer to your device.

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/using/ebooks.php

title: How to use Find it! @ Concordia
description: What is Find it! @ Concordia
Find it! @ Concordia button

"Find it! @ Concordia" helps you find articles. It allows you to go from a citation in a database to the full text, if it is available at Concordia, either online or in print.

Where do I use Find it! @ Concordia

You will see the "Find it! @ Concordia" button when searching the Library's article databases. You can also set it up to help you find the full-text of articles when searching Google Scholar.

How do I use Find it! @ Concordia

When you click on the "Find it! @ Concordia" button, a new page will open and one of three things may occur:

    Full-text available online
    Links to where you can access the article will be listed. Clicking on the "View Full Text" link will open a new page where you should be able to access the online article in html or PDF format.
    Find it! @ Concordia full-text available

    Article potentially available in print only
    When the full text is not available online, click the "Check for print holdings" button. This will search the Sofia Discovery tool for the print version of the journal in which the article was published. If the print journal is found, make sure to check the article's publication year to see if the Library has the journal for the year in which the article was published. (How to check Library holdings for print journals)
    Find it! @ Concordia print journal available

    Article not available at Concordia Library
    If there are no "View Full Text" links or a "Check for print holdings" button, the article may not be available at Concordia Library. You can request the article through Interlibrary Loans.


Getting help

If you're having any problems with Find it! @ Concordia, please contact the Ask a Librarian service.

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/using/find-it.php

title: Setting up Google Scholar to find Library resources
description: Library Links

    Go to Google Scholar
    Expand the menu in the top left corner and click on "Settings"
    Click on "Library links"
    If you configured Google Scholar for Concordia prior to July 2020, you will need to uncheck "Concordia University Libraries" because this option no longer works
    In the search box for "Show library access links for", type "Concordia University Library"
    Make sure the checkbox next to "Concordia University Library - Find it @ Concordia" is checked
    Click "Save"
    A link to Find it @ Concordia should now appear next to those citations that are available electronically from the Concordia Library.

Select Concordia University Library under Library Links

In addition to the link that may appear next to the citation's title, a Find it @ Concordia link may also appear on the bottom of a citation. This indicates that although we may not have the specific citation in our electronic holdings, we might have other issues of the same journal in electronic and/or print format.

Note: Remember that Google Scholar is a free web tool and the Find it @ Concordia link may not always be reliable and effective. It is always a good idea to search in the Sofia Discovery tool to verify whether an item you are looking for truly is or is not available at Concordia.
Back to top
Google Scholar and Zotero

The citation information for records found in Google Scholar searches can be saved to Zotero by using the Zotero Browser Connector.

Citation information for individual records also be saved to Zotero saved by clicking on the 'Cite' icon underneath the record, downloading the record using the 'RefMan' option, and then opening the saved RIS file with Zotero.

More information about Zotero can be found on the library's Zotero guide.

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/using/google-scholar.php

title: How to use RSS
description: What is RSS?

RSS, or Really Simple Syndication, is an XML-based format that makes it possible to stay abreast of constantly changing information available from a wide variety of Web sites without actually having to visit any of them.

The and RSS icons signal a link to web content has been formatted for use by an RSS reader. Using an RSS reader or aggregator, you can subscribe to RSS feeds from news-related sources, blogs, databases and other Web sites. Each time a site is updated, changes are sent instantly to your RSS reader.
Back to top
RSS and the Library

From the Library's Web site, the What's New announcements are available as an RSS feed.

Many databases allow you to save search alerts as RSS feeds. Also, you can find the latest content from scholarly journals by signing up for table-of-contents RSS alerts via JournalTOCs.   

RSS feeds on the Library's Web site follow RSS 2.0 Specification.
Back to top
RSS readers

There are a variety of RSS readers and new ones are appearing all the time.

Browser-based RSS readers
Add RSS feeds to your browser. These will only be available on the computer where that browser is installed.

    Chrome
    Firefox
    Microsoft Edge
    Opera
    Safari

Web-based RSS readers
These readers can be accessed from any computer.

    Feedly
    My Yahoo
    Netvibes
    The Old Reader

Windows desktop readers

    Awasu (personal edition is free)
    Feed Demon
    Microsoft Outlook
    Newz Crawler

Mac desktop software

    Apple Mail
    Newsfire

Finally, Zotero, a Web-based bibliographic manager, can also be used as an RSS reader.

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/using/rss/index.php

title: User guide for the Sofia Discovery tool
description: Sofia is a shared bilingual discovery tool for all academic libraries in Quebec. Although each library has a customized interface with its own logo and collections, Sofia is a window on the library collections throughout Quebec and around the world. Sofia is part of the Shared Services Platform (SSP), a project by BCI (Bureau de coopération interuniversitaire). 
 
Video transcript 

Allow us to introduce you to Sofia,
Concordia University Library’s new
discovery tool
in partnership with 17 other Quebec
universities.
The Sofia discovery tool will allow you
to search Concordia Library’s rich
collections
and also the collections of the other 17
libraries.
Sofia replaces the library catalog and
the discovery tool that we had been
using previously
at Concordia with just one tool. You can search for books articles and
more both in print
and electronic formats. Simply enter
a basic search or click on the advanced
search link for more search options. On the results screen use the limits on
the left
to narrow your search to books or
articles or videos. Your searches are limited to Concordia
collections initially
but you will always have the option to
expand your search to other libraries
when needed.
In the coming months new features and
functions will be added to allow you to
seamlessly request materials
from other Quebec libraries as well so
keep an eye out for further
announcements. If you have questions or comments about
Sofia please reach out to us via
our ask a librarian service or your
subject librarian. We do hope that you'll get to know
Sofia very well.


The Sofia Discovery tool is designed to find physical and digital items such as books, journals, journal articles, dissertations/theses, audiovisual and audio material, microforms, etc.

Users may select one of three levels to narrow their search results with Sofia:

    Concordia University (default level)
    Bibliothèques universitaires du Québec (academic libraries in Quebec)
    Libraries Worldwide

You may therefore search for items beyond Concordia's physical and digital collections.

When you sign in however, immediate access is limited to Concordia's licenced digital content.

Accessing items beyond Concordia's collection

If you expand your search to include academic libraries in Quebec or libraries worldwide, you will see when items are also available in print or digital format at Concordia. In the "Access Options" panel, on the right, there will be a few options for you to request items beyond Concordia's collection:

If you expand your search to include university libraries in Quebec, you will sometimes see a "request item" button with "Available from Bibliothèques universitaires du Québec".
Link in Sofia to request item from a Quebec university

If you expand your search to libraries worldwide, you will be given the option to "request via Interlibrary loan".
Link in Sofia to request the book from beyond Quebec

You will also be able to request scans of book chapters or print articles through the "Chapter scan/Put on reserve" button.

Searching
Basic search

Video transcript

Introduction
In this video, we will introduce some common methods for searching Sofia.
The Sofia Discovery tool is Concordia Library’s main search tool. You can use Sofia to find
a wide range of physical and digital items such as books, articles, videos, and much
more. From the Library’s home page you can start
your research with a simple search. For instance, let’s look for a specific
book. Enter the title of the book such as Great Expectations and click the Search button.
Searching for a book
Very often a simple title search will give you many results, but don’t worry – usually
the book you are looking for will be in the first few results. In this example, it is
at the top of the list! You can see in this first record, that the
Library has this title both as an ebook and as a physical book in the Webster Library.
To access the eBook, just click on the “View eBook” link.
You may be asked to supply your Concordia netname and password (if you haven’t already
done so), and then you’ll be able to access the eBook.
Next to this link, you will see that we have also have the print copy in the Webster Library,
and it is currently available to borrow. Also note that there is a series of buttons
above each record including one called “Share” - we’ll talk about this one shortly.
If you do not see the title you are looking for in the first screen of results, an Advanced
search may be needed. You can access the advanced search by clicking on the link underneath
the search box. Let’s try an Advanced Search, where we can
search for words specifically in the title and we’ll include the author’s name.
In the Title search box, we’ve typed the title: climate change justice
In the author search box, we’ve typed the author’s last name: Posner
It’s useful to know that Sofia is not limited to the collection of Concordia Library. If
you want, it can also search other Quebec university libraries and even libraries worldwide
– all at the same time!
You can decide what collection you want to search from the menu at the bottom of the
screen. The default option is to search only the Concordia
Library. Now, let’s look at the results of this search.
Searching results
Our search found a focused 10 results and the title we are looking for appears as an
eBook at the top of the list. If you look at the left-hand column, you will
notice under Format, that we retrieved both books and journal articles with this search..
You can simply click on the “Book” option to limit your results to books only. This
is especially useful when you have a lot of results in different formats.
Again, to access an ebook, just click on View eBook!
If you would like to have more information about a particular publication before accessing
it, click on its title. You will see a new screen with more information
about the book. Click on More item details to see even more.
Here is detailed information about another book, available in print at the Webster Library.
We can see the call number that we use to locate it on the library’s shelves, and
its availability.
Also note that you can click on the “Share” button at the top right of the screen
to obtain a permanent link to this record. We also saw this “Share” button earlier
on the results lists. You can copy and keep this permanent URL so
you can find this item easily again or just email it to yourself or someone else.
Let’s try a different type of search! We don’t always know the specific title
Keyword search
of a book or article, but we are simply searching for items on a particular topic.
You can do a KEYWORD search in Sofia’s basic search box, using the word AND between your
keywords.
Here we have done a simple search for gender AND leadership.
Note that the AND must be typed in all capital letters.
Though you can use the basic search box, Sofia’s advanced search screen can help you structure
a good search more easily. Let’s search for items about politics in
popular music using the advanced search screen. You would type “popular music” in the
first search box, and “politics” in the second one.
By default, the second search box is used for title searches, but we can easily change
it to “keyword” using the drop-down menu.
As we want results that include both “popular music” and “politics” we use the AND
between each row. This is the default option. Notice that we use quotation marks around
“popular music” to ensure that this exact expression will be searched.
You could add AND “United States” in the third row, to make your search even more precise.
But don’t forget to change the search index from “Author” to “Keyword.”
At a more advanced level, you could add synonyms or related words in any search box using “OR”
between your keywords. So in the first box you could type “popular music” OR “rap
music”.
Like the AND, the OR must be typed in all capital letters. But let’s keep it simple
and stick to just “popular music” and politics.
Filters
Here are the results of our search. Remember - Sofia will search for various types
of materials including journal articles and books.
On the results page, the left-hand column offers many different filters to refine your
search including library, format and publication
year.
In this case, we selected Article under format and Peer-Reviewed under content type. We also
limited the search results to the last 5 years. Note that the active filters are listed on
the top left of the screen under “current search”.
Using filters is an efficient way to obtain a more manageable list of relevant results.
As we saw earlier, just click on a title to learn more about it or click on View to access
electronic resources directly. Most articles in Sofia are available in electronic
form. When you click on View Full Text or Access
Online, sometimes the article will open directly. Sometimes a window will open with several
options for accessing the article. They should all work, but in case one doesn’t, you have
the option to try another one! Sofia is your best starting point for finding
books and ebooks. It is also useful for a quick search for articles,
multimedia and more in any subject area. However, if you want to do a thorough search
for journal articles and other documents, it is best to use one of the databases recommended
for your discipline. A recommended list of “Databases by Subject” can be found on
the Library’s homepage, just below Sofia. To learn more about searching the Sofia Discovery
tool, you can consult the user guide. And if you have any questions about using
Sofia, or any other library-related questions …. Ask a Librarian!

-

By default, the library website is set to basic search, where a single query box appears.

With this type of generic search, you may find items with keywords (subject, author, title, date of publication, editor, ISBN), using a single word or phrase with several words.

Basic search examples:

    margaret atwood
    nanotechnology
    indigenous art
    capital in the twenty-first century

To narrow search results or to initiate a more complex search, choose the advanced search functionality, or use search filters with indexes. To find a specific publication, enter the title and author in the advanced search box.

Advanced search

This functionality is a more complete form to specify various criteria, which appears by clicking on "Advanced Search" in the navigation bar, under the Sofia logo.
advanced search

Advanced search includes different types of boxes, where users specify their criteria, or "index". This includes different types of information to describe an item (title, author, editor, year of publication, language, ISBN, etc.).

You may add search boxes with the "+ Add row" button.
advanced search screen

Find out more about indexes.

Advanced search includes other options:

    Search a specific database or group of databases;
    Narrow results to open access or scientific articles;
    Request a specific format;
    Specify a range of publication dates;
    Select a branch or library

Search tips

To avoid incomplete search results, follow these guidelines for keywords:
Case 	The case does not affect search results. Keywords are upper case, lower case, or a combination of both. However, Boolean operators must be in upper case.
Stop words 	Avoid French or English stop words (le, la, les, du, de, des, a, an, but, the, etc.) because the Sofia Discovery tool does not take them into account. Use quotation marks (" ") for stop words that must be taken into account with the search.
Example: Thé = "the".
Punctuation and diacritics 	Avoid punctuation or diacritical signs.
Example: é=e, à=a, ç=c, ù=u, etc.
Apostrophe (') 	Avoid apostrophes (') and the letter preceding them, or omit the apostrophe and space between the words preceding and following the apostrophe. To include all variations, link both options with a Boolean OR.
Example: for king's, enter king OR kings
Numbers 	Numbers may be entered in numerals or letters.
Hyphens 	Use hyphens (-) or replace hyphens with a space.
Example: twenty-one, twenty one

Search tips

With Sofia, you can use different types of operators to define, as accurately possible, your search criteria and language. These operators apply to basic searches and advanced searches.
Boolean operators (AND, OR, NOT)

Boolean operators are inserted between keywords in a search box or between search boxes to connect or exclude certain words or phrases. For Sofia to recognize them, Boolean operators must be UPPERCASE. Keywords and their Boolean operators are processed left to right.
AND 	Narrows search results by returning only items that include both words/ phrases connected through the operator.
Example: photography AND war
* If no other operator is entered in the search box, a Boolean AND is by default inserted between the words.
OR 	Broadens search results by returning items that include either word/phrase connected through the operator.
Example: teen OR adolescent.
NOT 	Reduces search results by excluding items that include the word/phrase after the operator.
Example: "renewable energy" NOT hydroelectricity

More information on Boolean operators.

 
Quotation marks

Use English (" ") quotation marks to find an exact phrase or the closest words.

Examples:

    "attention deficit disorder"
    "Philippe Aubert de Gaspé"

 
Truncation

An asterisk (*) isolates the root of a word to include all variations or words from the same family. This generally increases search results. At least three letters must precede the asterisk.

Example:

    environment* = environment / environments / environmental / environmentally / environmentalism / environmentalist

More information on truncation

 
Wildcards

A pound sign (#) or question mark (?) substitutes one or several variable letters in a word. Wildcards broaden search results. At least three characters must precede the wildcard.

The pound sign (#) substitutes only one letter.

Examples:

    Thes#s = thesis, theses
    Wom#n = woman, women

The question mark substitutes several letters (0 - 9).

Example:

    Encyclop?dia = encyclopedia, encyclopaedia

More information on wildcards

 
Parentheses

Specify the order in which Boolean operators are applied to group keywords. Once the search is launched, Sofia interprets the words and operators in parentheses first, and interprets the words and operators outside the parentheses last.

Example:

    (computer* OR electronic*) AND (waste OR disposal) AND environment*

 
Indexes

Most search indexes are displayed in the advanced search window, but you can also enter their abbreviations in the in search boxes (basic or advanced search), and combine them with different operators.

*NOTE: a colon (:) after an abbreviation launches a keyword search in the index, but the equal sign (=) is used to find a specific phrase in the index In the latter case, the phrase must be located at the beginning of the field in question, without any words after, which significantly narrows results. When in doubt, use a colon with quotation marks.

Example:

ti=early childhood
    means that we’re looking for documents precisely entitled “Early Childhood”. A document entitled "Early Childhood : A Survey of Best Practices" would therefore not be included in the search results.
ti:"early childhood"
    searches for the phrase "early childhood" wherever it may be within the title field, even in combination with other words.

The following list includes the most commonly used indexes and their abbreviations:
Author 	au:shakespeare
au=shakespeare william
Call number 	nu:PS 3515*
nu=QD 96 M65 M66 2019
ISBN 	bn:9782742798247
ISSN 	in:0018-165x
Keyword 	kw:childhood
kw=early childhood
Language 	ln:fra
Editor 	pb:Springer
pb=Cambridge University Press
Subject 	su:chemistry
su=chemistry, organic
Title 	ti:Trainspotting
ti=Brave New World
Year of Publication 	yr:2020
yr:2010-2019
Barcode 	bq:X38579059
Format 	x0:artchap
Format abbreviations

Find out more about indexes.

Do not use spaces between index abbreviations and punctuation marks ( : or =), or between punctuation marks and keywords. Ex. : au=shakespeare william
Clicking on index words

Clicking on author (au=), subject (su:) or collection (se:) in items in results lists automatically launches a new index search.
full record in Sofia

Examples of new searches generated by clicking on item links:

    au=Carr, Deborah S
    (Displays all of the author's publications)

    se:Rose series in sociology
    (Displays all of the publications in the series)

    su:Aging United States
    (Displays all publications related to the subject matter)


Facets and sorting to refine a search
Facets

Facets are characteristics unique to a group of items and make it possible to refine the search results obtained based on one or more characteristics. Facets appear to the left of the search results in Sofia.
facets

    Group This Search (Group Related Editions): allows all the editions of a work (1st, 2nd, 3rd editions) to be grouped together under a single record when they are held by the same library. If the option is unchecked, each of the editions will be displayed as an independent document. This option is useful when the most recent edition is already checked out or to hide duplicates of the same title.
    Refine This Search (Expand Search with Related Terms): allows you to improve the keywords used with standardized terms from recognized thesauri (AAT, LCSH, MeSH, RVM, etc.) or with automatically translated search terms. This facet is useful for quickly finding relevant documents in a language other than the one used to search. When activated, the detail of the expansion appears in the form of an information bar placed at the top of the screen, allowing the user to know the terms that have been used to refine their initial search.
    Library: allows you to modify the scope of the search according to three levels of collections: home institution, academic libraries in Quebec or libraries worldwide. You can limit the results to the documents available at a specific library within your institution, extend the search to all Academic Libraries in Quebec, or explore the collections of libraries around the world. This facet is useful for locating titles of documents that have never been acquired by your institution, with a view to requesting them through the interlibrary loan service.
    Format: limits the search according to a specific type of document (article, book, video, periodical / magazine, etc.) as well as the specific formats relating to it (print, digital, VHS, etc.). This facet is useful for planning the use of specific devices. It is possible to select several options within this facet.
    Content Type: limits the search to certain categories of content (biographies, novels, open access publications, etc.). This facet is useful for easily locating literary subgenres or open access content.
    Publication Year: limits the search to a specific year (eg: 2017), to a time interval (eg: last 5 years) or to a specific interval of publication years (eg: from 2011 to 2017). This facet is useful for locating an author's publications in a specific year, for limiting the search to recent publications, or for locating documents published during a specific time interval.
    Language: limits the search according to the language in which a document was published. This facet is useful for locating items in the user’s language of choice.
    Topic: limits the search to a specific field of study, or a more precise sub-category. The topics in this facet come from the OCLC Conspectus, a hierarchy of topics organized by classification number (Dewey, LC or NLM) or by division / category. Topics are displayed according to the number of results identified (from the most numerous to the least numerous). This facet is useful for distinguishing between different contexts for the same search term.
    Author/Creator: limits the search to a specific author or creator. Listed in alphabetical order, the top 25 most commonly found names in the search results are displayed. This facet is useful for distinguishing works with a similar title or for locating documents written by recognized organizations. When the search finds a large number of results, similar names of authors / creators are grouped together.
    Database: limits the search to specific sources of data.

More information on facets.
Sorting Options

Search results may be sorted by relevance or bibliographic field.
sorting options

Sorting by relevance: this type of sorting takes into account the number of occurrences of a search keyword in the item records. Three options for sorting by relevance are available:

    Best match: this sorting option prioritizes items with the highest number of occurrences of a keyword in a record first, while emphasizing the title of the document.
    Recency: this sorting option prioritizes items with the highest number of occurrences of a keyword in a record first, while also emphasizing the publication date of a document. Not to be confused with the Date (most recent) option, for which the number of occurrences of a keyword does not take precedence over the order in which the results are displayed.
    Library: this sorting prioritizes items with the highest number of occurrences of a keyword in a record first, while emphasizing the collections available at the home institution.

Sorting by bibliographic field: this type of sorting takes into consideration the bibliographic information entered in a specific field for each item. Several sorting options by field are available:

    Author (A to Z): search results are sorted alphabetically, according to the last name and first name of the first author mentioned in the item record.
    Date (Newest First): search results are sorted in chronological order (from most recent to oldest) according to the publication date in the item record. Not to be confused with Recency (relevance), for which the publication date is a secondary criterion in the order in which the results are displayed, the primary criterion being the number of times a keyword is found in a record.
    Date (Oldest First): search results are sorted in chronological order (oldest to the most recent) according to the publication date in the item record.
    Most widely held: search results are sorted according to the number of libraries around the world holding a copy of the item found by the search (from most held to least held). This option is useful for knowing the essential titles related to the keywords used during the search.

Viewing items
Overview

The full item is displayed by clicking on a title or cover in the results list. This includes the main information from the results list (title, author, year of publication, etc.).

Export and save options

Export and save options are on the top right:
Sofia export and save options

    Cite: obtain a bibliographic reference for the item. On the left-hand side, you can export bibliographic data to EndNote, RefWorks or in RIS format (namely for Zotero and Mendeley). On the right-hand side, you can display a reference in various formats (APA, MLA, etc.) to copy/paste elsewhere.
        Note: always verify your citation after pasting it in your list of references or bibliography.
    Share: copy the URL for the item or send an email with a link to the item.
    Save: add item to My Items on the top of the page.
        Note: if you do not sign in to your account, items will only be saved during the work session. To save them permanently, you must sign in.

Access options

On the right of the page, the "Access Options" panel will suggest the best way to access the item. Depending on the type of document and its availability, you will be able to access electronic items directly from the panel or initiate a request for the item.

Example: Print book available at Concordia
access options for print

Example: EBook available at Concordia
access options for ebook

Example: Full-text article available at Concordia
access options for article

Example: Item not available Concordia, but can be requested via Interlibrary Loan
access options for ILL

Example: Book not available at Concordia, but can be requested through the Quebec university library network.
Access options, checkmark, Available from bibliotheques universitaires du Quebec, request

Sections within an item

The remainder of the item record is made up of additional bibliographic information (subjects, contents, series, etc.) in which the search terms are underlined in yellow, as well as availability information. It is possible to see “More Item Details” by clicking on this link at the bottom of the main section. Depending on the item, it is possible that the record does not have all the sections described below.
Availability

The following section presents the availability of the item. One or several of the following options may come up:

    Access Online: displays digital items with a hyperlink. Any access conditions are specified in Notes.
    Availability of this Edition at Concordia University Library: displays copies held by Concordia with exact location and availability.
    Other Availabilities & Holdings: allows you to see how many copies of the item are available in other academic libraries in Quebec and around the world. From this section you are able to initiate requests and inter-library loans.
        Bibliothèques universitaires du Québec: displays items from other libraries affiliated with the Quebec University Library Partnership. It is possible to consult or borrow the items on site. Note: For licencing purposes, you may not directly access digital items from other institutions. A note to this effect shall be displayed.
        Other Libraries Worldwide: displays copies from other libraries around the world that have deposited their collections in WorldCat. Click View Catalog for a specific library to consult its catalogue directly.

Browsing and exploring

Browse the Shelf: displays the item on a virtual shelf with other items that have a similar call number, and could therefore be relevant. Navigate left and right to see the next items. Items could be digital or located in different branches.
shelf browse

Explore Editions & Formats: displays different copies or editions of the item, such as earlier editions, other languages, other formats (e-book, large-print books, microform, etc.) Every edition includes summary information; click on a title to access the item. In this section is it possible to refine the results using the filters on the left side of the page.
explore editions
Requesting books
Video instructions
As a Concordia student or staff member, you’re not limited to just the books you can find at your campus library. Using Sofia, you can request books from both the Vanier and Webster Library, from other universities in Québec, and from libraries worldwide. This video will show you some of the buttons you will see in Sofia for getting the books you need.  

Let’s start with requesting book from the Vanier and Webster Library 

If you find a book located at Webster Library and would like to pick it up at Vanier Library, or vice-versa, simply click on the request button in Sofia. You will be prompted to log in with your netname and password if you haven’t already. 

And then you can select your desired pick-up location and click submit. 

If there is a book you need that is available at Concordia but is on hold or checked out by another user, you will be able to see if it is available through another Québec university library. In this example, all Concordia copies are in use, but you can see that it is available from another university library in Québec. Click the request button to request the book from the Québec university library network.  

If you aren’t finding what you’re looking for at Concordia, you can expand your search to include books that are available through other Québec university libraries. Just select the Bibliothèques universitaires du Québec filter under “Library” in the menu on the left. Now, if a book is available at another university in Quebec, you will see “available from Bibliothèques universitaires du Québec” and a request button. Select request and your desired pickup location, and then submit.  

Lastly, if the book you need can’t be found at Concordia or another Québec university library, you can use Sofia to borrow books from libraries worldwide using the interlibrary loan service.  

Like before, you can use the menu on the left to expand your search to include books found at libraries worldwide.   

In this example, we can see that the book is available at other libraries worldwide, and we can see a “request via Interlibrary Loan” button. Click this button to proceed with the request and sign into your account.  

This will bring you to the book form, which will autofill certain information about the book you’re requesting. Select whether you want to pick your book up from Webster or Vanier Library and double check all the fields to make sure the information is correct. 

At the bottom of the form, you can specify which edition you would like and any other comments you want to add, and then click submit request.  

You can now see your request in the “requests” tab in Sofia, and you will be notified by email when your book is ready for pickup. You can cancel your requests here as well. 

If you have any questions about Sofia or anything else related to the Library, please ask us. We’re happy to help. 

Concordia Library

You can request books in a few different ways at Concordia. For example, if you find a book located at Webster Library and would like it to be picked up at Vanier Library, simply click on the Request button (the same steps should be followed if you would like a Vanier Library book to be sent to Webster Library for pick-up).
For each print book in the Sofia Discovery tool, there is a link to request the book provided at the end of the record

Next, select your desired pick-up location and then click on Submit to complete your request.
Once you click on Request, you can select where you would like to pick up the item (Vanier Library or Webster Library)

Quebec university libraries

If there is a book you need that is available at Concordia, but it is on hold or checked out by another user, you will be able to see if it is available through another Quebec university library. In the example below, all Concordia copies are in use, however, you can see that it is "Available from Bibliothèques universitaires du Québec". Click the Request button to request the book from the Quebec university library network.

Select a pick-up location and click on Submit to complete your request.

If you search for a specific book in Sofia, and determine that it is not available through Concordia, try expanding your search to include available books offered through other Quebec university libraries. Select the "Bibliothèques universitaires du Québec" filter under "Library" in the left menu.

If it is available through another Quebec university library, you will see the text, "Available from Bibliothèques universitaires du Québec", along with a Request button.

Simply select the Request button if you would like to request the book. Complete the request form by selecting the desired pick-up location and click on Submit to complete your request.

Libraries worldwide

If the book you need cannot be found at Concordia Library, or one of the Quebec university libraries, you can place an interlibrary loan (ILL) request right in the Sofia Discovery tool.

Let's say you were looking to access the book in the example below. We can see that there is no availability through Concordia or any Quebec university library.

In this case, we see a "Request via Interlibrary Loan" button. Click this button to proceed with the request and sign into your account.

You will be brought to the "Book" form found in the "Requests" tab of your account.

The form will autofill certain information about the book. Review all the fields to ensure the information is correct. Select your desired pickup location (Webster or Vanier Library).

At the bottom of the form, you will see an "additional information" section. You can add in any other information pertaining to the request and/or specify the desired edition.

Click on "Submit request".

Your request can now be found in the "Requests" tab.

You will be notified by email when your item is ready for pickup.

Having trouble finding the book you need in Sofia? You can also create an ILL request through a form available in your Sofia "My Account".

To do this, sign into your account and click on the "Requests" option in the drop-down menu.

Select the "Create request" button.

Select the "Book" form. Fill out the form by providing as much detail as you can to help us locate your item. Select your desired pickup location.

Click on "Submit request".

Your request can then be found in the "Requests" tab.
Concordia Library

Requesting articles

Video instructions
Requesting articles and chapters 

As a Concordia student, you can use Sofia to request all kinds of resources from libraries in Québec and worldwide. 

Sometimes you might need access to a book chapter or an article that can only be found in print format. In this case, you can request to have it scanned and sent to you as a PDF. This video will show you some of the buttons you’ll see in Sofia for getting the journal articles and book chapters you need. 

Let’s look at how to request articles first.  

In this example, we can see that this article is available in print at Vanier Library. Here you can see the “request chapter scan or request for course reserves” button under the access options panel.  

If you click this button, you’ll be brought to a new page where you can request a scan of this articlet. Click on this link, sign into your Sofia account with your Concordia netname and password, and then you’ll be brought to the article/chapter form.  

The form will autofill certain information about the article, but it’s important to double check that the information is correct.  

Then, click submit request and you’ll be notified by email when your PDF scan is ready to view. 

You can request scans of articles from non-Concordia libraries too using the interlibrary loan service. In this example, you can see the “request via interlibrary loan” button under the access options panel. Click this button, and you will be brought to the same form as before.  

Next, we’ll request a scan of a book chapter, which is very similar to requesting an article. First, find the book you’re looking for in Sofia. You’ll follow the same steps regardless of if it’s available at Concordia, another Québec university library, or another library worldwide, so try expanding your search using the menu on the left if you aren’t finding what you need.  

Once you’ve found your book, select the “request chapter scan or request for course reserves” button. Just like when we requested the article, you will be brought to a new page where you can request a scan of this document. Click this link, sign into your Sofia account, and double check that the information in the form is correct.  

Make sure to indicate the title of the specific chapter you want scanned and the page number if you know it. 

Then, click submit request at the bottom of the page. 

Once you’ve submitted the request for your book chapter or article, you will be able to see it under the “requests” tab in Sofia. This is where you can cancel requests as well.  

If you’re ever unable to find the resource you’re looking for in Sofia, whether it’s an article, book, or book chapter, you can also create a new interlibrary loan request from scratch using the “create request” button.  

You can also get back to this page by using the my account menu and then clicking requests. 

In the new request form, select the appropriate document type from the options at the top and fill out the form with as much information as possible. Then click submit request at the bottom of the page, and library staff will work on finding what you need.  

And if you have any questions about finding the resources you need using Sofia or any questions about using the Library, please ask us. We’re happy to help.  
-

If you find or need an article that is found in a print periodical (e.g. journals, magazines, newspapers and conferences) available at Concordia Library, you can use the "Chapter Scan" button to request a scan of the article.

In the example below, we see that this article is available in print at Vanier Library. To request that the article be scanned, click on the "Chapter Scan/Put on reserve" button under the Access Options panel.

You will be brought to page called "What would you like to do today?". Select the "Request a scan from this document (e.g. chapter)" link.

Sign into your Sofia "My Account".

You will be brought to the "Article/Chapter" form in your "My Account". The form will autofill certain information about the article. Review all the fields to ensure the information is correct.

Request type "COPY" will send you a PDF of the article.

At the bottom of the form, you will see an "additional information" section. You can add in any other information pertaining to the request.

Click on "Submit request".

Your request can now be found in the "Requests" tab.

You will be notified by email when your PDF scan is ready to view.

Non-Concordia Library articles

If the article is not available through Concordia Library but is available through a Quebec university library or other libraries worldwide, you can place an interlibrary loan (ILL) request right in Sofia.

Looking at the example below, select the "Request via Interlibrary Loan" button under the "Access options" panel.

You will be brought to the "Article/Chapter" form in your "My Account". The form will autofill certain information about the article. Review all the fields to ensure the information is correct.

Request type "COPY" will send you a PDF of the article.

At the bottom of the form, you will see an "additional information" section. You can add in any other information pertaining to the request.

Click on "Submit request".

Your request can now be found in the "Requests" tab.

You will be notified by email when your PDF scan is ready to view.

Having trouble finding the article you need in Sofia? You can also create an ILL request through a form available in your Sofia "My Account".

To do this, sign into your account and click on the "Requests" option in the drop-down menu.

Select the "Create request" button.

Select the "Article/Chapter" form. Fill out the form by providing as much detail as you can to help us locate your item.

Click on "Submit request".

Your request can then be found in the "Requests" tab.
Requesting chapters
Follow these steps

Need a chapter scan of a part of a book? Follow the steps below whether the book is available through Concordia Library, a Quebec university library, or another library worldwide.

Search for the book in Sofia. If you are having trouble finding the book, expand your search to include results from Bibliothèques universitaires du Québec and/or Libraries Worldwide.

Once you find the book, select the "Chapter Scan/Put on Reserve" button.
Inside the full record for the book, your first option is for chapter scan - put on reserve

You will be brought to page called "What would you like to do today?". Select the "Request a scan from this document (e.g. chapter)" link.
Intermediate page with 2 options

Sign into your Sofia "My Account".

In this case, you will be brought to the "Article/Chapter" form in your "My Account".

Request type "COPY" will send you a PDF of the article.

The form will autofill certain information about the book. Be sure to specify the title of the chapter you need, along with the page numbers.
Type the title of the article or chapter as well as the page number range

At the bottom of the form, you will see an "additional information" section. You can add in any other information pertaining to the request.

Click on "Submit request".
Space to add comments and to submit or cancel the request

Your request can now be found in the "Requests" tab.
Submitted requests are listed under Requests

Having trouble finding the book chapter you need in Sofia? You can also create an ILL request to receive a scanned book chapter through a form available in your Sofia "My Account".

To do this, sign into your account and click on the "Requests" option in the drop-down menu.
View requests after signing in

Select the "Create request" button.
On your list of requests you have the option of creating a new request

Select the "Article/Chapter" form. Fill out the form by providing as much detail as you can to help us locate your item. Be sure to specify the title of the chapter you need, along with the page numbers.
Create a request for an article or chapter and fill in all the details

Click on "Submit request".
Add comments and submit or cancel the request

Your request can then be found in the "Requests" tab.
Monitoring and managing requests
Follow these steps

Sign into your Sofia (My Account) .

Under the "My Account" drop down menu in the upper right corner, click on "Requests".
List of options under My Account - the second one is Requests.

Now you will see a list of all Concordia, Quebec university library, ILL, and article/chapter scan requested items. You can identify an ILL or article/chapter scan request by the "request details" number found in the submitted date column.

To check on the status of any of your requests, view the "Status" column on the right.
List of requested items with brief details about each request

Clicking on the "request details" link will show you the information along with any notes you supplied when making the request.
Full details of an individual request
Cancel a request

To cancel a request, select the item(s) you wish to cancel by using the check box in the left column. Then click on the "Cancel requests" button.
Button to cancel requests
Notifications and pickup

You will receive email notifications when your request is available for pickup or download.

Physical items requested and available through Concordia Library can be picked up from the public hold shelves at either Vanier or Webster Library (depending on which library you selected as pick up location when placing your request).

Physical items requested through Interlibrary Loan, or books that were fulfilled through the Quebec university library network, can be picked up at the Circulation/Loans desks at either Vanier or Webster Library (depending on which library you selected as pick up location when placing your request).
My Account
Overview

Your library account is where information about current loans, holds placed, fines can be found. You can also save searches as well as records for another time.

These instructions cover the functions available via the "Sign In" link:
Sofia signin

Also included in these instructions are the Search activity", "Saved searches", "Saved items" and "Saved lists" functionalities available via the "My Account" drop-down list in the upper right corner:
Sofia my account dropdown menu

Signing in

Click the "Sign In" button in the upper right corner of the browser. You will be presented with a page where you must select your login method. Choices include your Concordia netname (for current students, faculty, and staff), or your barcode (for alumni and affiliated borrowers). Please use the "Remember my selection" option on this page with care, especially from a public computer.

If you select the Concordia netname login method you will be redirected to a sign in page at Concordia. Once you enter your netname and password and click "SIGN IN" you will be redirected back to the Sofia Discovery tool.

Once signed in, the link in the upper right corner, formerly the "Sign In" button, will now be labelled "My Account", and serve as a drop-down menu for specific services.

The barcode login method requires that users set a password before logging in for the first time. To do this, click the "SET/RESET PASSWORD" button, below the "SIGN IN" button on the login page. Enter your barcode in the "Barcode" box and click the "REQUEST NEW PASSWORD" button. A link to a password creation page will be emailed to the address in your library account. Please note the password criteria at the top of the page. Following password creation, you will now be able to use your barcode and password on the sign in page.

The password for the barcode login can be changed using the "My Account > View Profile > Change password" function. This function cannot be used to change the password associated with your Concordia netname.

** Concordia community users can only sign in to their account via Concordia's Sofia Discovery tool. If you are a student at multiple institutions, or an employee in addition to a student, it is possible that you will have more than one account.

Checkouts, holds, requests, fines

To see what you have checked out, requested, and/or any fines that may have accrued, click on the "My Account" > "Checkouts", "Requests" or "Fees".

    Checkouts: Items currently checked out to you, along with their due dates, are listed on the "Checkouts" tab. Items can be sorted and renewed using the "Renew Items" button.
    Requests: Holds/requests you have placed on titles through Concordia Library, the Quebec university library network, or a library worldwide interlibrary loan, are listed on the "Requests" tab. Requests can be cancelled using the "Cancel Requests" button and edited using the "Edit Request" link.
    Fees: Charges such as fines are listed on the "Fees" tab. Charges can be sorted and fees paid using the "Pay Fees" button. Follow further on-screen instructions to complete fee payment.

Request statuses

Once you place a request in Sofia, you can always go to the “requests” tab in My Account to check on the status of the request. Below you will find several examples of types of statuses you may see.

Status: Submitted

Status: Click here to view item (for scan delivery requests)

Status: Click here to view item (a PDF sent to you via Interlibrary Loans – this has a link expiration date)

Status: In transit

Status: Cancelled

Status: Ready for pickup

Status: Item being Retrieved

Status: In transit to Webster or Vanier Library

Status: Complete

Status: Link expired

Status: Not ready for pickup

Status: Received by Library (appears once you have returned an item back to the library)

Status: Unable to provide

My items

To manage items that you have saved while searching, click the "Saved Items" link on the right, just above the first results on the results page or from the "My Account" drop-down list.
Sofia saved items list

Items can be sorted into lists, emailed to the address of your choice, cited, or deleted.

    Create List: Personal lists can be created to sort your saved items (items for which the star was clicked) by clicking the "Create List" button. You are required to enter a name for the list and the desired privacy level for the list. Lists are "Private" by default, meaning the list is only visible via your account. Moving the "Privacy" slider to the right creates a "Shared" list, and a "Sharable Link" will be created which can be copied and distributed. Once an item has been moved to a list you can add a note to the item using the "Add note" button.

Saved lists are found at "My Account > Saved Lists".

It is also possible to import lists that you have created at WorldCat.org using the "My Account > Import My Lists" function . Lists from WorldCat.org must be exported to CSV in order to be imported into Discovery.

Saved items not saved to a list will be discarded at logout. Please note that you are asked to delete your list of saved items before leaving a public computer as the items are visible to others temporarily.

    Email: Selected items can be emailed to the address of your choice and a message may be included by clicking the "Email" button.
    Cite: Citations for all select items or lists can be generated using the "Cite" button. Selecting a citation style from the dropdown menu will allow you to copy the citations immediately. Selecting an export method will create a file with citation information that can be loaded into your citation manager of choice.
    Move: Items in a list can be moved to another list using the "Move" button. You will be asked to select the list to move them to. Items can only be moved to existing lists. If you wish to move items to a new list, please create the list before moving items. Moved items will be removed from the current list.
    Delete: You can delete individual items from the list or the entire list using the "Delete Searches" button.

Saved searches

It is possible to save a search using the "Save Search" link in the upper right corner of the result list. Search terms, any limits, sorting and grouping methods you have applied, as well as databases searched are all saved.
Sofia save search button

Saved searches can be found at "My Account > Saved Searches". Searches can be executed via the "Search" button on the right, next to the desired search. Up to 100 searches can be saved, and searches can be deleted using the "Delete" button on the right, next to the search you wish to delete.

Borrowing history

You have the option to enable borrowing history to keep track of any materials that you have checked out at the library. Items will be listed in this section as you return materials to the library. The information will be retained for 5 years.

By default, this option is disabled. If you would like to make use of this feature, follow the steps below:

First, log into your Sofia My Account. Next, go to the “Profile” tab and toggle on the “Enable my borrowing history” option.

Once the option is enabled, the changes are saved.

Now you can select the “borrowing history” tab to view the items you have previously checked out. As is the case below, no history will appear in the “borrowing history” tab until you have returned at least one item to the library after enabling the feature.

You may disable your borrowing history at any time. Please note that entries are automatically deleted if you disable your borrowing history.

Signing out

Click "My Account > Sign Out".

If signed in with your Concordia netname you will see a page titled "To complete logout, close your browser", prompting you to close the browser to fully sign out. If you do not close your browser and return to the main search page, you will see that you are still logged in. If you signed in with your barcode, you will be brought back to the main discovery search box, and are not required to close your browser to complete the process.
The resource you want has moved
Please search for it in our Sofia Discovery tool:
User guide
Advanced search
What happened to CLUES and the Discovery Search?

You clicked on a link to the CLUES Library Catalogue or the Discovery Search (Encore). Why isn't it working?

On July 15, 2020, the Concordia Library joined 17 other Quebec university libraries in migrating to a new shared catalogue: the Sofia Discovery tool.

The Library has officially retired the CLUES Library Catalogue, Discovery Search, and former E-Journals portal causing any links to these systems to break. We have done our best to update links on our websites, but it is inevitable that some old links remain. We apologize for the inconvenience this may cause.

How do I find what I want in Sofia based on CLUES/Encore links?

Depending on the type of link you have, there are some options:
Search by keyword or title

You can search for the title in Sofia in a general keyword search or use the title search index from the advanced search page.
If your link contains a "b-record" number

If your CLUES or Encore links looks like one of the following:

    https://clues.concordia.ca/record=b3840850
    https://mercury.concordia.ca/record=b3840850
    https://encore.concordia.ca/iii/encore/record/C__Rb3840850?lang=eng

You can search for the "b" number in Sofia, which in this case is a keyword search for "b3840850?". Please include the question mark on the end for best results. If this search returns more than one result, please select your result according to title.

In the case of links to e-books, it is possible that a search for a "b" number will not return any results. Please search by keyword or title.
If the link contains search terms

If your link is not to specific record, but includes search terms, please search for the same terms in the Sofia Discovery tool.
Special Collections links

If your link is to a special collection, you will find new links on the Special Collections - Book Collections section of the website.
If your link was to a database

Search for the database.

How do I replace my CLUES and Encore links with Sofia Discovery tool links?

Once you have found your title in Sofia, please use the "Share" feature and copy the new direct link to replace your current link.
finding a permalink in the Sofia Discovery tool sharing a permalink in the Sofia Discovery tool

E.g., the new link for https://clues.concordia.ca/record=b3840850 is https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1122697357.

Alternatively, you can copy the link from your browser’s address bar. If you do this from the main search page, you will be copying a search and preserving any limits you have applied. If you have clicked into a result, you will be copying a link to the specific record.

Where do I go for the E-Journals Portal?

E-Journals are also in the Sofia Discovery tool and can be found at https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/atoztitles#journal or from the E-Journals link in the Library Links dropdown menu in the top right corner of the search interface. From the Journals section it is possible to search by journal title and ISSN like in the previous E-Journals Portal, and you can search by DOI (Digital Object Identifier) or PMID (PubMed Identifier) from the Articles section. Please be sure to select the appropriate Identifier before launching your search.
searching for articles by digital object identifier (DOI)

Browsing for journals or subscribed packages is possible by title, however browsing journals by subject is best done using a subject search in the Advanced Search section of the Sofia Discovery tool.


link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/using/sofia/index.php

title: How to use Udemy
description: What is Udemy?

Udemy is a self-paced learning platform that hosts thousands of instructional videos on a variety of topics. Through Concordia’s Udemy Business subscription, students, faculty, and staff have access to thousands of Udemy’s highest-rated courses.

Courses can be taken for personal and professional development, or can be taken to complete a certificate to demonstrate your skills to current or potential employers.

Popular topic areas include coding, data science, Microsoft Office software, project management, language acquisition, web development, and graphic design.

For tips on using and navigating Udemy, consult Udemy's getting started guide.
Back to top
Udemy sign-up

To sign up for Udemy, you will need an active Concordia email. (See student instructions for activating email or faculty/staff instructions for activating email).
For students:

    Log into the Student Hub and navigate to the My CU Account page. Select the "Experiential Learning and professional development" category from the menu and select “Activate your Udemy account.” You will need to consent to the privacy terms of service to continue.

For faculty & staff:

    Log into Carrefour and click on the My CU Account tab on the top navigation bar. Select the "Training" category from the left navigation panel and then select “Activate your Udemy account” on the "Udemy online learning" tile. You will need to consent to the privacy terms of service to continue.

Once your account is initialized, log in to Concordia Udemy for Business with your Concordia email address. Please note that your account may take up to two hours to initialize after sign up.

As noted above, you will need to consent to the privacy terms of service in order to use Udemy. In order to respect users’ rights to opt out of this privacy requirement, Udemy courses should not be made mandatory for students or staff. For more information about Udemy’s data privacy terms, please consult the Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) conducted by IITS.
Back to top
Help and troubleshooting

Udemy offers extensive and helpful user documentation.

For help signing up for Udemy, navigating the platform, or tips for getting the most out of Udemy, please use our Ask a Librarian service.
Back to top
FAQ

Can I use Udemy on my phone or tablet?

There is a Udemy for Business app available for both Android and iOS devices.

You must log in through the Udemy website to create your account before you can log in using the app.

Do Udemy courses count for credit?

No, Udemy is a complementary learning service. Udemy courses cannot be taken for course credit or counted towards your degree requirements.

Do Udemy courses offer an attestation/proof of completion for completing a course?

Most Udemy courses provide a certificate of completion. Courses that offer certificates will indicate this in the course page under the “Enroll now” button.

Why can’t I find a course from udemy.com in the Concordia Udemy subscription (concordia.udemy.com)?

Concordia has a subscription to Udemy for Business that provides access to thousands of the highest quality Udemy courses. However, not all courses available on Udemy are included in our license.

For more information about how courses are selected for Udemy for Business, consult the “Udemy Business Content Quality” page. If you would like to suggest that a course be added to Udemy for Business, please visit the “How do I Suggest a Course?” page to find out more.

How does Udemy for business handle data privacy?

Concordia has performed a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) of the Udemy service.

See the Udemy Privacy Policy page for information on how Udemy handles your data.

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/using/udemy.php

title: Bibliometrics and research impact guide
description: Researcher identifiers and profiles
Finding publications by a particular author is often far from simple. With the tremendous number of researchers and published documents available, ensuring that the documents you're looking at belong to the correct John Smith has become quite an issue.

Different services have been created in an attempt to ensure the right person is getting credit for the right work. It is generally up to the researcher to sign up for these services.

ORCID – a unique 16-digit number attached to a profile that can be filled out in as much or as little detail as you wish, with sections for Education, Employment, Funding and Works. ORCID profiles allow you to associate your ORCID with other author identifiers including ResearcherID, and personal websites. For more information on ORCID, please see this ORCID Library Guide.

Why sign up for ORCID?

    It gives you some control over what’s being attributed (or not attributed, as the case may be) to you in important citation databases
    It allows for the creation of an authoritative record of your publications in a single location
    It enables others to discover other work you’ve done, even if it is not indexed in a particular database
    Some journals now require that you have an ORCiD when submitting your work for publication

Other author identifiers and their features*:

ResearcherID** – a Thomson Reuters product that functions in coordination with Web of Science, an important citation database. Search Web of Science for your documents and associate them with your ResearcherID. Interoperable with ORCID.
**As of April 2019, all ResearcherIDs have been moved to the Publons platform (FAQs for Publons-ResearcherID).

Scopus Author Profile – automatically assigned by the Scopus database when your publications are indexed within it. You can request changes to your profile if you notice inaccuracies in the documents associated with your Profile.

Google Scholar Author Profiles – allows you to search for and associate yourself with your documents that are discoverable in the Google Scholar search interface

* Note that some of these are associated with databases for which you/your institution need a subscription in order to access
Bibliometric indicators
Common indicators

Three common bibliometric indicators referred to and provided by various citation resources include the following:
Citation Count:

The number of times a document has been cited by other documents
h-index:

This value attempts to take into account both the number of documents you’ve produced, as well as the citations those documents have received.

The h-index is defined as follows:

    “A scientist has index h if h of his or her Np papers have at least h citations each and the other (Np - h) papers have ≤ h citations each” (Hirsch, 2005, p. 16569).

Note: The h-index is only meaningful when compared to others within the same discipline. Researchers in one field may have very different h-indices than researchers in another as a result of different citation practices in individual subject areas.
How do you calculate your h-index?

List your documents in order of decreasing citation count.  Work your way down through the list and find the hth ranked document for which you have at least that same number of citations.

In the example below, your h-index would be 4, because four of your papers have been cited at least four times. Your h-index is not 5 because five of your papers have not been cited at least five times.
Rank 	Citation count
1 	24
2 	15
3 	15
4 	7
5 	1
i10-index:

A Google-defined metric, the i-10 index is a measure of “the number of articles with at least ten citations” (Google, 2010).
Additional Resources:

For a more comprehensive list of Research Impact Metrics, see Elsevier's Reference Card or see the Metrics Toolkit created by Robin Champieux, Heather Coates and Stacy Konkiel.

The University of Waterloo provides a great explanation of the appropriate and inappropriate use of different bibliometric parameters in their White Paper: Measuring Research Outputs Through Bibliometrics.

Texas A&M University Libraries have created a guide on Best Practices for the Use of Scholarly Impact Metrics.
Major citation databases
Tools containing research performance data

Choosing the right tool for the job

Although a number of different databases provide citation counts for the documents they contain, three major sources of bibliometric content are Scopus, Web of Science and Google Scholar.

Which resource should you choose? 

There is no straightforward answer to this—each resource indexes a different combination of publications, so the list of your documents contained in each, as well as their associated citation counts, are likely to differ.  No single citation index will give you a complete citation count.  By searching a number of citation indices you can gain a better idea of the actual citation count for a particular article.
Web of Science

Web of Science is composed of multiple citation indices owned by Thomson Reuters.  Searching by author using the "Author" field on the main search page is one way to determine the citation activity to an author’s publications.  Carrying out this kind of search can help in the retrieval of a list of works an individual has written; however it may involve some manual sorting to ensure that the documents in the list should indeed be attributed to the researcher under consideration.

You can also run an “Author Search” in the database’s Core Collection by selecting the Core Collection from the top dropdown menu, and then using the next dropdown menu to switch from a Basic Search to an Author Search. Follow the prompts to Enter Author Name, Select Research Domain, and Select Organization.  Although potentially quicker than the method described above, one drawback to this method is the potential of excluding content indexed in the Web of Science database outside of their Core Collection, and their associated citation counts.  Again, this search may involve some manual sorting of the results list to ensure that the documents retrieved should indeed be attributed to the researcher under consideration.

Once you have generated a list of publications by a particular author, you can generate a citation report to view graphs and summary data.

Watch a video detailing this process: Web of Science Citation Report.

Something to consider when carrying out this kind of analysis is the propensity for small errors made by authors in their reference lists. Web of Science takes this into account with their Cited Reference Search option. A Cited Reference Search can potentially provide a more accurate citation count for a particular paper.

Watch a video detailing this process: Web of Science Core Collection: How to do a Cited Reference Search.

A Cited Reference Search can also be carried out to determine citation counts for non-journal literature such as books, and to determine citation counts for items that have not been indexed in Web of Science, but have been cited by documents indexed in the resource.
Scopus

Scopus allows you to create a list of works an individual has written by searching by author using the "Authors" field on the main search page. You can also run an “Author Search” by selecting it from the top tab options.  Both approaches may involve some manual sorting to ensure that the documents in the list should indeed be attributed to the researcher under consideration.

Once you have generated a list of publications by a particular author, you can select the items and then “View citation overview” to view graphs and summary data that illustrate the citation activity for the author’s publications.
Google Scholar

Publish or Perish software allows you to search Google Scholar for your work and determine bibliometric values without a Google Scholar Author Profile, however, you’ll have the greatest amount of control by creating a Google Scholar Author Profile and associating your documents with that profile.

Efforts have been made by a group of researchers at the University of Waterloo to use Web of Science, Scopus and Google Scholar to come up with a single value for a researcher’s h-index and citation counts.  View a guide that explains the process in detail.
Other Databases

It could very well be that your area of research does not receive good coverage in Scopus, Web of Science or Google Scholar, but receives better coverage in one of the databases listed below. In that case, you may want to consult the citation counts provided by the following individual databases. Keep in mind, these databases may not have the citation analysis functionality like that of Scopus or Web of Science. You may end up having to export data (when possible) to another file format in order to carry out an analysis.

SciFinder:
For each article you can select “Get Citing” from under “Get Related Citations”.

PubMed (Medline):
In individual article records, there is a section titled “Cited by _ PubMed Central articles”, which takes you to a list of the articles available for free in PubMed Central (separate from PubMed itself) that have cited that article.

MathSciNet:
It is possible to click on the “Author Citations” tab and search by author name to get a list of that person’s articles in MathSciNet, as well as a citation count from articles from the subset of MathSciNet’s Reference List Journals. The list is organized in such a manner that one could easily determine the h-index for those articles and their citing articles in that database.

IEEE Xplore:
Click on the “Cited By” tab in each article’s record to get a list of the documents citing that article. Clicking on the “Metrics” tab will give comparison citation counts from Scopus and Web of Science as well.

ProQuest databases (including Philosopher’s Index, Sociological Abstracts):
Gives a “Cited By” count on the right hand side for each individual document.

EBSCO databases (Academic Search Complete):
Gives a “Times Cited in this Database” count above the PDF on the search results page, and the item record page, for some documents.
Journal Level Metrics


Although calculated using article citation counts, journal level metrics are not necessarily predictive of how many citations any given article in a journal will receive.
Journal Impact Factor:

Created by Eugene Garfield and Irving H. Sher, this value relates to a particular journal, not an individual researcher, and is defined below.

    “A journal’s impact factor is based on two elements: the numerator, which is the number of cites in the current year to any items published in the journal in the previous 2 years; and the denominator, the number of substantive articles (source items) published in the same 2 years” (Garfield, 2005, p. 5). 

For other similar indicators, such as CiteScore and Source-Normalized Impact per Paper (SNIP), see the "Ratio-based indicators" section of this Scholarly Kitchen blog post.

Where can you find Impact Factor information?
Journal Citation Reports

Journal Citation Reports (JCR) is a Clarivate Analytics product based on Web of Science data, that provides journal level metrics for some titles.

How can I find the Impact Factor for a specific journal?

    Enter the name of the journal in the search box on the JCR homescreen.
    The Impact Factor for the most recent JCR year will be visible in that journal's Journal Impact Factor Trend graph, with a detailed calculation provided beneath it.

Is it possible to see how different journals in a particular research area compare?

    Select the Browse by Journal option from the JCR homescreen.
    Select the area of interest from the "Select Categories" section on the left hand side. Then select Submit.
    Select the journals you would like to compare, and then choose the "Compare Selected Journals" option.
    Select the mode of comparison (either Quartile or Trends) and then the metrics you would like to compare, before again selecting Submit.
Alternative metrics


Taking into account the fact that traditional citation metrics may not be appropriate for evaluating researchers in all subject areas or in all cases, a newer group of metrics, alternative metrics (or “altmetrics”), have been proposed. Alternative metrics include things such as tweets on Twitter, and even download or view counts in citation management sites such as Mendeley.

Altmetric has created a comprehensive What Are Altmetrics guide, that offers a more in-depth discussion of the topic than is provided on this page.

Different services have been established to help researchers determine these altmetric values, including:

Altmetric.com: provides a bookmarklet that can be saved to your web browser and clicked on to provide aggregate altmetric values for academic content on the web. Subscriptions to their products are also available to institutions.

Plum Analytics: A subscription based service aimed at institutions, with a variety of products that gather five different types of metrics and can provide assistance with finding funding opportunities in the United States, benchmarking and institutional repository analytics.

ImpactStory: Geared towards individuals, this subscription based service allows you to create a profile and keep track of profile metrics for the research content you share.
Research data metrics
With increased emphasis placed by funders and policymakers on making available the underlying data behind one’s research, it follows that other researchers might then use this data in their own scholarly pursuits. Not only can that data be reused, but it can also be cited, downloaded, or mentioned on blogs and in tweets or other social media sites.
Raising your research data impact

The following measure can help ensure greater impact for your research data.
1. Deposit your data in a repository

Repositories offer stable locations that allow other researchers to cite the data. When choosing a repository consider the following:

    Is the repository well used and easily discoverable in your discipline?
    Does the repository offer a unique identifier, like a DOI, for your dataset.
    Are there usage statistics such as downloads or views. Or it is harvested by databases such as the Data Citation Index?

Find out more: see the "Where to Share Data" section of the Library’s Research data management guide.
2. Describe your data

For other researchers to discover, understand, and reuse your data, it has to be well described. Providing basic information such as a title, abstract, keywords, geospatial and/or temporal coverage is a start. However, to be reusable, and even reproducible, data also need to be accompanied by more robust documentation.

Find out more: see the "Document & describe" section of the Library’s Research data management guide.
3. Make your data open

If other researchers cannot access your data, it cannot be reused or cited. Notwithstanding ethical, legal, or commercial restrictions, data should be as open as possible. Note that access to open data can be controlled through registration prior to download or author requests for usage.
4. Apply a license to the data

Licenses define what others may or may not do with your data. They can run from no restrictions (public domain) to much narrower more restrictive licenses, such as limiting use to strictly non-commercial activities and requiring attribution to the data creator.

Find out more: see the "Data licenses" section of the Library’s Research data management guide.
5. Promote and cite your data

To raise awareness about your data, consider the following:

    Cite it in your publications.
    Publish a data paper that describes your dataset.
    Reference the dataset in social networks such as Twitter, Academia.edu, or ResearchGate.

Back to top
Sources of research data metrics

Research data metrics can be obtained either through citations, usage statistics, or altmetrics. Note that research data indicators and metrics can only be measured for data that has been deposited in a data repository.
1. Citation databases for datasets

Datasets can be cited like other research outputs such as articles and books. Although there is one commercially available data citation database, only the following free resource is currently available to Concordians:

    Google Dataset Search
    Shows how many scholarly articles in Google Scholar cite datasets. Datasets are harvested from a variety of data repositories.

2. Usage statistics from data repositories

Most data repositories will provide some type of data metric, most often in the form of download statistics. Below are Concordia specific repositories. Consult the Re3data directory for a comprehensive list of data repositories around the world.

    Spectrum: Concordia University's Institutional Research Repository
        Includes many types of research outputs, including datasets
        Provides download statistics and altmetrics for each item in the repository 
    Concordia Dataverse: Concordia University’s Research Data Repository
        Includes datasets deposited by Concordia researchers and graduate students
        Provides download metrics for datasets as well as for files within each dataset

3. Altmetrics

The altmetrics available for your data will depend in large part, on where it is deposited and whether the dataset has been given a DOI.

    PlumX Metrics
        Tracks dataset DOIs from many different repositories such as Dryad and Figshare. It measures metrics for these datasets in over 50 sources (Twitter, Mendeley, Scopus, PLOS, etc.) along five categories: Usage, Captures, Mentions, Social Media and Citations.
    Altmetric
        Tracks dataset DOIs from many different repositories such as Dryad and Figshare and looks for links to these datasets in over a dozen sources. If your dataset has a DOI, you may be able to retrieve altmetric data using the Altmetric Bookmarklet
    Impact Story
        Allows you to create an account (via Twitter) and track various metrics (Altmetric data, Mendeley saves, and more), for your research output, including datasets.
Strategies for increasing impact


Research has been done on different factors and their effects on research impact. Some common strategies for increasing impact are listed below:

    Visibility: Make it easy for others to access your work by publishing in an Open Access journal and/or maximize the exposure of your publications by depositing open access versions in Spectrum, Concordia University’s Institutional Research Repository. Papers in Spectrum are indexed by Google Scholar, potentially increasing your citation impact.

For different studies that have been done on the impact of open access and citations see the resources provided by The Open Citation Project or SPARC Europe.

    Usability: Deposit your original research data into a repository. If another researcher uses your data in their own research, there’s a good chance that they’ll be citing your work. For more information on data deposition and granting agency requirements, please see Concordia Library's Research Data Management Guide.

For studies related to data deposition and citation impact, see "Data reuse and the open data citation advantage" by Piwowar & Vision.

    Accessibility: When sharing your work with others, be sure to provide a stable, persistent link to your content. The best way to do this is through your document’s DOI. See our guide on creating a permanent link to your article using its DOI.
    Search engine optimization: Online publishing and dissemination is changing the way researchers write articles. To be spotted, articles must be structured with search engines in mind.
        Include important keywords in your abstract and title (the text fields most usually searched and read).
        Avoid unnecessarily flowery language if possible.

    Get counted: When publishing always use the same name variant. Your publication impact profile (particularly for journal articles) may be misrepresented when:
        Authors alternate between using middle initials and/or shortened versions of their first names.
        You publish under multiple names e.g. female authors marry and switch to publishing under their married name or hyphenated name
        Your papers are difficult to identify from those by authors with a similar name in citation databases. 

Therefore:

    Use a constant name syntax when publishing where possible and consider creating a researcher profile
    When publishing always use the same institutional name variant, including the complete University address when submitting your manuscript for publication, as the address of the affiliation field is often used to retrieve publication outputs.

See also:

    Texas A&M University Libraries' Best Practices for the Use of Scholarly Metrics.
    DORA, the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment, recently signed by the Canadian Association of Research Libraries (CARL).


link: https://library.concordia.ca/research/bibliometrics/increasing-impact.php

title: Copyright guide
description: Purpose of this guide

The information in this guide is not meant to be legal advice.

The purpose of this guide is to assist faculty and students in making their own decisions based on a better understanding of their rights and responsibilities. This guide mostly addresses copyright in the context of research and education. It does not aim to provide final answers as to what can and cannot be legally done according to the Copyright Act.

Members of the Concordia University community should consult the University's Policy on Copyright Compliance as well as the Copyright Guidelines for Instructors. In case of doubt, please seek legal assistance.

For more information, see the list of useful websites.
Back to top
Copyright basics - What is copyright and how does it work?

In Canada, copyright is governed by the Copyright Act (R.S.C. 1985, c. C-42) which regulates the use and reproduction of intellectual and artistic creations.

Copyright protects works from being copied, performed or distributed without the permission of the copyright holder, usually the author or the creator of the work, and provides exceptions for special circumstances.

Copyright automatically applies to original works such as books, articles, videos, music, paintings, photographs, digital works, broadcasts and performances.
Back to top
Copyright basics - Ideas, facts and originality

Ideas and facts are not protected by copyright. Only works that are original and fixed are protected by copyright. A work is "fixed" when it is produced onto any media, like paper or within a digital file. A work is considered "original" when it is the product of the author's own skill, judgment and creativity, has not been copied and demonstrates more than a trivial, mechanical level of skill and judgment.

For instance, statistical data on the Montreal population is not protected, but a table presenting these data in a specific way may be.
Back to top
Copyright basics - Digital works

Although the Copyright Act was written before digital content was widely available, digital works such as CDs, DVDs, websites and other online documents and files are protected by copyright. Fair dealing and educational exceptions apply to digital works just as they do for other types of documents. Library electronic resources, such as subscription databases and ejournal collections, are usually also regulated by licence agreements.
Back to top
Copyright basics - Duration of copyright

As of December 30, 2022, unless an exception applies, the length of copyright in Canada is seventy (70) years after the death of the author. This change in duration does not affect works that have already entered the public domain in Canada. After copyright expires, a work becomes part of the public domain and may be freely copied and distributed. However, the Copyright Act provides for different copyright length for some types of works such as sound recordings, photographs, films, and anonymous works.
Back to top
Copyright basics - Public domain

Works that are not under copyright are part of the "public domain" and can be freely copied, distributed, adapted and performed without permission from the author or the payment of royalties.
Back to top
Copyright basics - Using copyrighted works

Before copying, adapting, distributing or performing a copyrighted work, consider if:

    you are using an insubstantial or substantial part of the work
    what you want to do may fall under fair dealing
    there may be a specific exception in the Copyright Act that might apply
    the copyright holder has granted permission or issued a special licence

In addition, at Concordia University, the Policy on Copyright Compliance as well as the Copyright Guidelines for Instructors have specific rules for our community.
Back to top
Copyright basics - Insubstantial/Substantial

The Copyright Act (s.3) protects substantial parts of works as well as whole works.

Since "substantial" is not defined in the Act, the quantity and importance of what is being copied must be evaluated. In deciding whether a part of a work is considered substantial, the whole work must be taken into account. A few sentences from a novel would probably be considered insubstantial but a single line from a poem might be essential to the work and be considered substantial.
Back to top
Copyright basics - Fair dealing

"Fair dealing" offers some exceptions to the Copyright Act's general prohibition on copying. Fair dealing allows limited and non-commercial copying for the purposes of research, private study, education, parody, satire, criticism, review, and news reporting.

Proportionality is important in considering if use of a work might be considered fair dealing. In the CCH Canadian Ltd. v. Law Society of Upper Canada [2004] decision, the Supreme Court proposed the following criteria for evaluating whether a dealing is fair:

    the purpose of the dealing
    the character of the dealing
    the amount of the dealing
    the nature of the work
    available alternatives to the dealing
    the effect of the dealing on the work

The purpose of the use, the amount to be used and alternatives available have to be considered, and must outweigh the nature and the effect of the dealing on the work.

Everyone benefits from fair dealing. However, educational institutions, libraries, museums and archives have additional special provisions (s.29.4 to 30.4)
Back to top
Copyright basics - Educational exceptions

(s. 29.4 to 30.04)

Under certain conditions, educational institutions or persons acting under their authority can make limited copies for instruction and examinations:

    Instructors can copy a work onto a board, flip chart or similar surface and project a work in order to display it. The projection must be on the school's premises for educational purposes only. Digital projectors are covered by this section.
    For the purposes of an exam or test, instructors can reproduce, translate or perform a work when it is not commercially available in an appropriate medium.

Other educational exceptions are discussed in the sections covering translation and performance, broadcasting and playing sound recordings and images.
Back to top
Copyright basics - Libraries, museums and archives exceptions

Canadian libraries, archives and museums benefit from exceptions that facilitate the delivery of print and electronic works. They may do anything that individuals may do for themselves as long as it is for private study, research, education, parody, satire, criticism or review (sections 30.1 to 30.4). For example, library personnel are allowed to make a copy of an article to be placed on course reserve for a faculty member.
Back to top
Copyright basics - Exception for persons with perceptual disabilities

The Copyright Act (s.32) allows copying, translation, adaptation and reproduction in sign language of literary, musical, artistic or dramatic works, to create a document in a format specifically designed for persons with perceptual disabilities. This exception does not apply in cases where the work is commercially available in an appropriate format or for cinematographic works.
Back to top
Copyright basics - Licences

Licences are contracts that regulate the reproduction and use of works in addition to the requirements of the Copyright Act. Some licences impose further restrictions on the use and reproduction of works and some waive certain rights that are part of the Copyright Act. In the context of a university, faculty and students should know about the following types of licences:

    The Copibec licence with the majority of Quebec universities regulates the creation and distribution of coursepacks, which is the production of multiple copies of works for teaching. The licence specifies limitations on what can be reproduced (such as number of pages, percentage of total work, type of work) and the payment of royalty fees. For more information on the licence, see the Concordia Policy on Copyright Compliance, section 6. For information on the creation of coursepacks, see the Concordia Print Services website.
    Most of the databases available through the library have licences that govern use and reproduction of their contents. For instance, some database licences allow sending full-text journal articles to oneself by e-mail, others do not. Most of the licenses limit the usage of the database to non-commercial purposes. If you are uncertain about using one of the Libraries' databases, please consult a librarian.

Back to top
Copyright basics - Creator's rights for published works

Works that you have created are also subject to copyright. Publishing agreements may assign or licence a broad range of rights to the publisher. The following internet sites provide information about publisher policies or alternatives:

    SHERPA/RoMEO - provides a summary of publisher copyright policies and self-archiving
    Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition (SPARC) - information compiled by the Association of Research Libraries (note: this is an organization from the United States; not all information is valid for Canada).

Creators who want to facilitate the dissemination of their works while preserving ownership rights should consider using one of the licences proposed by Creative Commons.
Back to top
Text (print and electronic)

Whether in print or digital form, text is protected by copyright. Most formats are protected, such as books, articles, websites and their components, as well as most types of works, such as poems, plays, novels or essays.
Copying or scanning for personal use

One may make a copy of a portion of a work if it is fair dealing or if a special exception in the Copyright Act permits it. Otherwise a special agreement must exist between the copyright holder and the user, such as through a licence agreement.

Just how much of a work can be copied, or what might be considered "fair" is not defined in the Copyright Act. For more information see the sections Substantial/Insubstantial and Fair Dealing.
Photocopies for classroom use

The Copibec licence governs the creation of course packs, which are, technically, multiple copies of works. As well, this licence allows for making multiple copies of a work for free classroom distribution. The photocopies must not exceed 20% of the total work. In addition, a full article can be copied, as well as a full chapter from a book, as long as it does not exceed 20% of a book. Note that not all publishers are represented by this licence. Verify the Copibec site for details. The publisher of the work must not be in the Copibec exclusion list.

It is important to understand that the Copibec licence does not apply to users' fair dealing rights.
Digital distribution: e-mail and internet

How much or how little one can deliver electronically to one or many colleagues, students or staff depends upon the fair dealing provisions of the Copyright Act.

    E-mail
    It is generally not advisable to send copyrighted works via e-mail unless you own the right to do so. If you wish to share an electronic article, website or other electronic resource with others, it is preferable to provide a link to the source in your e-mail, the Web address or bibliographic reference. For example, if you wish to refer an article from an electronic journal provided by the Libraries to a colleague, a student or group of students at Concordia, send the link to the article, not the entire article. (How to create permanent links to online articles). A colleague at another University may obtain the document from their home institution. If you wish to share a webpage, it is preferable to provide the link in the e-mail as opposed to attaching the page to the body of your message.
    Internet
    Posting copyrighted text on a website may not constitute research or private study since this is a form of distribution. On the other hand, fair dealing allows education, parody, satire, criticism, review and news reporting, which may require posting text on the internet. The quantity of text you post should be proportional to the amount of criticism, review and news reporting that is done and proper attribution must always be given to the original creator of the text. It is preferable to provide links to the text rather than reproduce it on the internet.

Citing and quoting

Proper citing of sources is essential in academic work. With regards to copyright, although rules regarding proper citation styles do not form part of the copyright rules, but rather the rules regarding academic integrity, citing touches upon the moral right of a creator's paternity of a work. For more information on citing and quoting material, consult the Academic Code of Conduct as well as A guide to academic integrity. Guides to citation styles (such as MLA, APA) are available on the Libraries' website.
Back to top
Videos and DVDs

Cinematographic works include "any works expressed by any process analogous to cinematography, whether or not accompanied by a soundtrack" (s. 2). In this section, the term “Video/DVD” refers to cinematographic work saved on one of various storage formats, including but not limited to DVD, Blu-ray disc, VHS, beta and u-matic tape, as well as 16mm and 35mm films, whether such is obtained from the Concordia University Libraries, from Visual Media Resources (Faculty of Fine Arts), from a video store, or from any other vendor, or is a personal, non-infringing, copy.

Canadian copyright on cinematographic works governs the right to:

    copy a work
    perform a work in public
    communicate a work to the public (e.g. broadcasting)

Works that are in the public domain are not protected by copyright and can be used and copied freely. For dramatic cinematographic works (most feature films), copyright lasts for 70 years after the creator's death; for non-dramatic works (e.g. documentaries), copyright lasts for the remainder of the calendar year of publication plus 70 years (see Copyright basics - Duration of Copyright). It can be difficult to determine the identity of the creator of a cinematographic work; the best way to find out who holds copyright and whether or not a title is in the public domain is to contact the production company, distributor or licensing agent. You may be able to find this information in the Internet Movie Database.
Public performances of videos

In general, it is permissible for University employees to play sound recordings or music, show films or movies (including Video/DVD) or air live TV, if this is done on the premises of the University for educational or training purposes and not for profit, before an audience consisting primarily of students or instructors of the University.

It should be noted that digital locks (technological protection measures and rights management information) may not be circumvented in order to use the work. Furthermore, the sound recording or the cinematographic work being performed must not be an infringing copy and there may not be reasonable grounds to believe that it is an infringing copy.
Copying complete works

Videos/DVDs generally cannot be copied without written permission from the copyright holder. Exceptions to this are works that are in the public domain, works that allow copying under licence, or if the use falls under fair dealing.
Using clips in your own work

When using clips in one's own work, the following should be considered:

    Is your work for research, private study, education, parody, satire, criticism, review, or news reporting? If so, it may be fair dealing.
    Are you an employee or student of the University and do you intend to show the work for free in class, for educational reasons, to an audience primarily consisting of students and instructors of the University? If so, then your use may be fair dealing.
    Are you using clips from another person's work? If it is an insubstantial part of a work, then the clip can be used.
    Are you engaged in non-commercial user-generated content (e.g., posting your own derivative amateur video on YouTube)? If so, a new exception to the Copyright Act (see s. 29.21) may apply to you.

Online videos and other media

Most online content will have a use agreement of some kind that must be consulted prior to showing in class, saving, or using in your own work. Even if the content is available freely on the Web, it is still covered by copyright and you must adhere to the terms of use of a website, which can often be found in a link (frequently named “Legal” or “Terms”) on the bottom of a webpage. Of particular note, the CBC has an FAQ page for use of their digital content. For live television programs, see the section on Radio and Television Broadcasts.
Exceptions for examinations

You can reproduce and perform a copyrighted work, on the premises of an educational institution, if it is for a test or examination and is not commercially available.
Back to top
Radio and television broadcasts
Taping programs for the purpose of showing in class

It is permissible to make, at the time of its communication to the public by telecommunication, a single copy of a television broadcast for the purposes of performing the copy for the students of the University, on the University’s premises, for educational or training purposes. In the case of a news program or a news commentary program, excluding documentaries, the copy may be retained infinitely. Otherwise, a copy of any other broadcast, including documentaries, may be kept for up to thirty (30) days.
Live broadcasts in the classroom

Live radio and television programs may be shown in the classroom while being broadcast.
Exceptions for examinations

You can reproduce and perform a copyrighted work, on the premises of an educational institution, if it is for a test or examination and is not commercially available.
Back to top
Sound recordings

A sound recording, according to the Canadian Copyright Act, includes "a recording fixed in any material form, consisting of sounds, whether or not of a performance of a work, but excluding any soundtrack of a cinematographic work where it accompanies the cinematographic work."

Sound recordings may have multiple copyright protections:

    Protection of the recording itself (CD, audiocassette) (held by producer of recording)
    Protection of the performance (held by performers on the recording)
    Protection of the music/lyrics (held by composers of music/lyrics)

Playing a sound recording in class

Section 29.5 of the Copyright Act allows the playing of a non-infringing sound recording "on the premises of the educational institution for educational or training purposes and not for profit, before an audience consisting primarily of students of the educational institution, instructors acting under the authority of the educational institution or any person who is directly responsible for setting a curriculum for the educational institution."

Audio broadcasts may not be copied and played later in class except under special conditions.
Copying a sound recording that includes a musical work

Copying a sound recording that includes a musical work for individual personal use onto a "blank audio recording medium" as defined by the Copyright Act is permitted. You cannot copy a sound recording for someone else or for any other purpose including selling/renting out, distributing, communicating to others, or performing the recording in public. The Copyright Act has established a system of levy fees on blank media for providing royalty payments to composers, performers and sound recording producers (s.8). In Canada, the Canadian Private Copyright Collective is responsible for collecting and distributing private copying royalties.
Copying a sound recording that does not include a musical work

Aside from the special exceptions for news broadcasts and the fair dealing exceptions discussed further in this document, you cannot generally copy a sound recording that does not include a musical work.

Additional, special exceptions exist for persons with perceptual disabilities for reproducing a sound recording in alternative formats.
Distributing a sound recording

Distributing a sound recording, such as making it digitally available through the internet, making copies for students etc., requires the payment of royalty fees.

The Neighbouring Rights Collective of Canada collects and distributes royalties for distribution and/or broadcasting of sound recordings.
Using clips, modifying/sampling/remixing

    Musical clips
    Using clips of a musical sound recording generally requires copyright clearance from the copyright holders unless you are engaged in non-commercial user-generated content. In Canada, for musical recordings contact the Canadian Musical Reproductive Rights Agency.
    Non-musical clips
    Using clips of a sound recording in another work generally requires copyright clearance from the copyright holders unless you are engaged in non-commercial user-generated content.

In addition, some exceptions may apply under the fair dealing provisions.
Back to top
Adaptation, translation and performance

Adaptations, performances and translations of works are subject to copyright (section 3 of the Copyright Act).
Adaptation

Adapting copyrighted material requires permission from the owner of the original work. Reproduction or performance of an adaptation may require the permission of both the owner of the rights for the original work, and of the rights' holder for the adapted work.
Translation

Permission to translate substantial portions of a work must be obtained from the owner of the original work. Translations also are considered original works and are protected by copyright. This is true even if the original work has become part of the public domain. Reproduction or performance of a translation may require the permission of both the owner of the rights for the original work, and owner of the rights for the adapted work.

This being said, the Canadian Copyright Act recognizes the right to translate a work for the purposes of education or training on the premises of an educational institution in order to display the translated work. This is only possible if no commercial alternative is available.
Performance

A special exception (at section 29.5), permits educational institutions to use copyrighted materials in order to:

    Stage a live performance in public (a play, a public reading, a concert, etc.), primarily by students of the educational institution
    Play a sound recording of a work or of a performer's performance that is embodied in a sound recording
    Play a live broadcast in public (television, radio, internet).

This exception applies:

    on the premises of an educational institution
    for educational or training purposes and not for profit and
    before an audience consisting primarily of students of the educational institution

Back to top
Still images

Images of artistic and visual works covered by the Copyright Act include: paintings, drawings, maps, charts, plans, photographs, engravings, sculptures, works of artistic craftsmanship, architectural works, and compilations of artistic works. Copyright in general continues for 70 years following the year of the producer's death after which the work comes into the public domain (see Copyright basics - Duration of Copyright).
Making digital copies of images

Although many images are already available in digital format from various sources, there are numerous images which are available only in paper or slide format. Such images which are covered by copyright can be scanned if they fall under the exceptions outlined in the following sections.
Showing digital images in classrooms

According to Section 29.4 of the Copyright Act, educators can, for the purposes of education or training, copy a work to display an image in the classroom or elsewhere on University premises. This includes data projectors (PowerPoint presentations). However, this exemption does not apply if the image is commercially available on the Canadian market in a medium that is appropriate for the intended purpose, and can be acquired within a reasonable time and for a reasonable price.

Images from commercial databases (ARTstor) for which the library has a licenced agreement can be used in classroom presentations.
Using digital images in a course website

Generally, it is necessary to obtain permission to copy as well as distribute a copyright protected work on the internet, unless it is from a licenced database or authorisation has been obtained from the copyright owner. However, it is also arguable that images can be used under the following conditions:

    Using low resolution images or thumbnails which do not compete with the commercial interest of copyright owners
    Linking to images rather than posting them on a class website

Exceptions for examinations

You can reproduce copyrighted images for a test or examination given on the premises of an educational institution. However, this exemption does not apply if the image is commercially available on the Canadian market in a medium that is appropriate for the intended purpose, and can be acquired within a reasonable time and for a reasonable price.
Using images in student papers

Fair dealing (Section 29.1) allows you to make copies of images that are copyright protected for the purposes of research, private study, education, parody, satire, criticism, and review.
Using images in your own art work

The Copyright Act protects substantial parts of works which implies that insubstantial parts of copyrighted images can be used. However, there is no clear definition of what constitutes substantial or insubstantial. While some contemporary artists are proponents of using any images in the practice of appropriation art, such derivative works do not clearly enjoy the benefit of fair dealing. See the viewpoint of CARFAC, the Canadian Artist Representation/le Front des artistes canadiens.
Using images from the ARTstor database

Images in ARTstor can be used for classroom instruction and related classroom activities, student assignments and research, research activities of faculty, public display or public performance as part of a non-commercial scholarly or education presentation, in research and dissertations. Uses of images not permitted by ARTstor include: commercial - such as scholarly publications available for purchase - public performances, as well as adaptation of images for derivative works.
Using images on the internet

Although there are websites that allow free downloading of images, mostly for personal use only, many websites include copyrighted images. Permission to use images must be obtained from the copyright owner unless your use constitutes fair dealing.

The following Canadian website, prepared by the 2Learn.ca Education Society, provides an overview of how to determine the copyright status of images on the internet: Digital images and copyright.

It covers such questions as:

    How to locate copyright statements on a website
    What to do if you can't find a copyright statement on a website
    Sample copyright statements for "free" images
    Sample copyright statements for limiting use of images
    Sample copyright statements for restricting use of images

Back to top
Useful websites

    Canadian Heritage, Copyright Policy Branch
    Canadian Musical Reproductive Rights Agency
    Canadian Private Copyright Collective
    Concordia University Policy on Copyright Compliance
    Canadian Copyright Act
    Canadian Library Association Copyright Information Centre
    The CLA provides summary information on the Copyright Act, regulations, bills to amend the Act and case law, as well as several links to more detailed analysis. Also available is the official CLA's position statement on copyright.
    CultureLibre.ca - Olivier Charbonneau's blog on digital copyright issues (in French)
    Digital Images and Copyright
    Industry Canada, Canadian Intellectual Property Office
    Re:Sound Music Licensing Company
    SHERPA/RoMEO
    Provides a summary of publisher copyright policies and self-archiving
    SPARC: Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition
    Information compiled by the Association of Research Libraries (note: this is an organization from the United States - not all information is valid for Canada)

Back to top
Contact

For more information, please contact copyright.questions@concordia.ca

link: https://library.concordia.ca/research/copyright/index.php

title: Copyright Guide for Thesis Preparation
description: Purpose of this guide

This Copyright Guide for Thesis Preparation provides information for graduate students about copyright in the preparation of a thesis or dissertation. The Guide discusses the use of copyrighted material in a thesis as well as copyright issues related to electronic deposit of theses at Concordia University. Concordia regulations require that a thesis be deposited in electronic form in Spectrum, Concordia’s open access research repository, and this Guide reviews the copyright implications of this deposit.
Back to top
Academic Integrity: Citation & Avoiding Plagiarism

An important part of engaging in research and scholarship is giving other authors proper attribution and recognition for their ideas, words, and contributions. This is especially important in preparing a thesis, since your thesis must be an original work in your own words. Naturally, you will cite other works, quote and paraphrase from them. You must do so in a consistent and transparent manner, using a citation or style guide.

Whenever you use someone else’s work, cite it according to the conventions or style guide of your discipline. If you are unsure which citation style to use, consult your supervisor early in your thesis writing process. The Thesis Preparation and Thesis Examination Regulations guide prepared by the Thesis Office lists some commonly used citation manuals. The Library maintains information on citation guides, and offers workshops on best practices and use of reference management tools.

Keep track of the sources you use and make proper citation a practice as you conduct your literature review and research. Citation or style guides will show how to cite a variety of scholarly sources, including journal articles, books, conference proceedings, news sources, archival documents, films, audio recordings, and more.

For more information on citing sources and how to avoid plagiarism, consult the following Concordia resources:

What is plagiarism? https://www.concordia.ca/conduct/academic-integrity/plagiarism.html

Information about different citation and style guides:https://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/

Concordia’s Academic Code of Conduct
Back to top
What is copyright, and to what it applies

It is your responsibility to follow copyright law. Both this Guide and The Concordia University Libraries Copyright Guide provide general information about copyright to assist you. Neither is intended to be and cannot be construed as legal advice. You can also consult Concordia’s Policy on Copyright Compliance (SG-2).

Taking the time to become informed about copyright is essential in the preparation of your thesis, and will also be valuable to you as a copyright holder. Today’s online environment and the availability of electronic theses and dissertations (ETDs), through institutional repositories such as Spectrum: Concordia University Research Repository, make information available to a wider audience and benefit research everywhere. This new reality makes becoming knowledgeable about copyright very important for you as an author.

Obtaining copyright permissions from copyright holders can be a very time consuming endeavor. Therefore it is strongly recommended that you investigate copyright responsibilities early in the process of writing your thesis. Copyright should be reviewed even in cases where you are including your own previously published work as it is possible that, despite you having authored the work, you no longer retain copyright in it (see Section entitled Including Your Own Previously Published Work in Your Thesis).

Although proper citation provides acknowledgment for the sources you use, it is not sufficient in meeting copyright obligations.

Copyright protects works from being copied, performed or distributed without the permission of the copyright holder, usually the author or the creator of the work, and provides exceptions for special circumstances.

Copyright automatically applies to original works such as books, articles, videos, music, paintings, photographs, digital works, broadcasts and performances.

The length of copyright is usually seventy (70) years after the death of the creator (see Copyright basics - Duration of Copyright). After copyright expires, a work becomes part of the public domain and may be freely copied and distributed.

Before copying, adapting, distributing or performing a copyrighted work, you need to consider whether:

    You are using an insubstantial or substantial part of the work.
    What you want to do may fall under fair dealing.
    The copyright holder has granted permission or has issued a special license.

Back to top
Including Someone Else’s Work

Copyright provides the context to determine the specific circumstances when using someone else’s work is forbidden and others when it is allowed. This section highlights certain parameters to abide by in order to respect the Copyright Act of Canada.
Back to top
Including Someone Else’s Work - Insubstantial inclusion

Copyright protects specifically a "work or any substantial part thereof" (S. 3 of the Copyright Act), which implies that use of insubstantial parts of copyright protected works are allowed by the Copyright Act. It is generally understood that quotations fall under the “insubstantial use” doctrine, so long as they are of a reasonable length. The maximum allowable length of a quotation will depend on many factors, such as the length of the original work or the nature of the work. For example, quoting half of a short poem is probably not an “insubstantial” use, while quoting a few paragraphs from a scholarly book may qualify.

Different disciplines have their own accepted practices. Academic integrity and authorship practices in your discipline may provide more important constraints to using insubstantial parts of copyright protected works (i.e. in determining the maximum length of a citation) than the Copyright Act. It is highly recommended that you discuss such norms with your thesis supervisor or thesis committee or write to copyright.questions@concordia.ca.
Back to top
Including Someone Else’s Work - Substantial inclusion

Using a substantial part or the whole of a copyrighted work in a thesis means you are using the reserved rights defined in the Copyright Act. In those circumstances, you must determine if this use constitutes “fair dealing” or if the use requires you to seek permission from the appropriate rights holder.
Back to top
Including Someone Else’s Work - Fair Dealing vs. Seeking Permission

In general, employing a substantial part or the whole of a copyrighted work requires you to:

    Qualify for fair dealing, in which case you do not have to seek permission for using the copyrighted work OR
    Seek and obtain permission for your intended use OR
    Refrain from using the work.

The guidelines and information below can assist with your decision about including a copyright protected work in your thesis1.

Fair dealing is a general exception to copyright which applies in the context of private study, research, education, parody or satire, criticism, review, news reporting and usually implies that the source of the work must be identified through proper citation. Fair dealing is defined by stating what it is not: "Fair dealing for the purpose of research, private study, education, parody or satire does not infringe copyright." (Copyright Act, R.S.C. 1985, c. C-42, art. 292 ). This makes it more difficult to define precisely when a use qualifies for fair dealing.

The critique or review of a copyright protected work that is quoted in your thesis may qualify for inclusion as criticism or review under fair dealing. The context or the purpose of how you include the work is the first important factor to consider. For example, including a copyrighted image would arguably not constitute fair dealing for criticism or review if you did not discuss the image. The more something is discussed in your thesis, the easier it becomes to qualify for fair dealing in the appropriate context.

Another factor to consider when assessing fair dealing is “proportionality”. This refers to the proportion or amount of the work that you use compared to the complete work. Reproducing a large section of a work that only constitutes a small proportion of the entire work may more easily be considered fair dealing than using a large proportion of the work. The latter may require that you seek a permission to use such work in your thesis.

These factors above are intended to guide you in determining whether you can include the copyrighted work in your thesis, or whether you need to consider alternatives to using the copyright protected work because your proposed use will have a detrimental impact on the work and its rights holder. For example, it is easier to qualify for fair dealing for criticism and review if the reproduction of an image is reduced in size or resolution, the image’s characteristics are thoroughly discussed in your thesis, its suppression would diminish the quality and relevance of the discussion and a full citation for its source is included.

For further information regarding other factors that should be taken into account, consult The Concordia Libraries Copyright Guide. Again, general or accepted uses in your field may be a guide towards what constitutes fair dealing.

1Please note that making copies of articles and other copyrighted works for your personal records easily fits within the context of fair dealing for the purposes of private study or research. In this Guide, we are discussing the use of copyrighted works within your thesis. For more information about copying for private study or research purposes, please read: https://library.concordia.ca/research/copyright/?guid=text

2https://www.canlii. org/en/ca/laws/stat/rsc-1985-c-c-42/latest/rsc-1985-c-c-42.html#_Exceptions_189943
Back to top
Including Someone Else’s Work - Types of Information Formats Protected by Copyright

If you incorporate any of these formats that are copyright protected in your thesis or dissertation, it is your responsibility to determine if you are using an insubstantial or substantial amount of the material. If you use a substantial amount, you are required to seek copyright permission to use unless the use of the material falls under fair dealing.

Text

Paper and digital books and articles, as well as web pages, all of which present textual information such as poems, plays, novels, research articles, papers, opinions or blogs, are covered by copyright. Substantial or insubstantial use depends in part on the proportion of the text you use. A few sentences from a novel or essay would probably be considered insubstantial but a single line from a poem can be considered substantial.

Translations of copyrighted works are also copyright protected. Please note that permission to translate substantial portions of a work must be obtained from the owner of the original work.

Images

Images, including artistic works, photographs, maps, charts, drawings, diagrams as well as tables and graphs, are covered by copyright. It is important to verify the copyright status of images taken from a copyrighted work (books, articles, web sites or other sources). Using low resolution images in your thesis or dissertation may be considered as insubstantial use since they do not compete with the commercial interest of copyright owners.

Video/Film

Video, film works and television programs in any format – online, Blu-ray, DVD, VHS, Beta and U-matic tape, as well as 16mm and 35mm films - are covered by copyright. Film or video clips may also be covered by copyright; depending on the proportion of a work used in a thesis or dissertation, it may be possible to claim insubstantial use or fair dealing. For film materials found on the Web, it is important to verify if they are copyright protected.

Music

Sound recordings of music are copyright protected. Using clips of a musical sound recording generally requires copyright clearance from the copyright holders. You will want to determine if your inclusion of such material may be considered substantial or insubstantial or if you can claim fair dealing.

Sheet music, scores, and song sheets are also covered by copyright. If you use excerpts of such materials, you may be able to claim insubstantial use or fair dealing.

Software and code

Copyright protects certain aspects of software including the underlying code. It also protects some of the external elements in a program, such as music, pictures or text as well as some of the elements of the user interface. The concept of a program is not protected by copyright, although it may be protected by patents. It is possible to produce similar programs to those that exist as long as the source code is not used.

For further information about how copyright applies to these formats and materials, see the Concordia Libraries Copyright Guide.
Back to top
How to seek permission to include copyrighted works in your thesis - When to Seek Permission

If, after reading about copyright and consulting with your thesis committee, you consider that your thesis includes elements (text, graphs, tables, images, etc.) that are substantial and do not constitute fair dealing, then you must seek permission to reproduce them. This applies to both materials from other authors and your own materials that have been previously published.

As obtaining an official letter or signed form from the copyright holder can take time, you will want to seek permission early in the thesis process, especially if you need to contact multiple publishers.
Back to top
How to seek permission to include copyrighted works in your thesis - Publisher Copyright Policies

The first step is to determine who holds the copyright for the materials that you are using. In most cases, for materials published as part of journals or books, the publisher will hold the copyright. The publisher’s website may provide information on copyright policies and people to contact. Journal websites are particularly useful and many will provide:

    Advance permission for specific uses including non-commercial reproduction and use in theses;
    Information on how to obtain permission and whom to contact;
    Types of uses that are specifically prohibited.

Journal websites are also useful to obtain information on how to reuse your own articles for which the publisher holds the copyright.
Back to top
How to seek permission to include copyrighted works in your thesis - Contacting the Copyright Holder

If you determine that you need to ask permission, following are important elements to include in your correspondence:

    Clarification that you are a graduate student at Concordia University and that the purpose of the request is to ask permission for including copyrighted material in your thesis
    A detailed citation of the document (or part thereof) that you are using in your thesis. Include page numbers, table or chart number, or any other relevant information
    Notification that the thesis will be available online through Spectrum, Concordia University’s institutional repository, the Library and Archive Canada’s website and other websites. Include a copy of these licence agreement or a link to their text: Spectrum Concordia University Research Repository’s Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence. 

Ask the rights’ holder to respond to your request by a given date. You may also want to offer to send the copyright holder a copy of your thesis.
Back to top
How to seek permission to include copyrighted works in your thesis - Permission form

To facilitate the process of asking permission to use copyrighted work you may want to use this request form: https://library.concordia.ca/research/copyright/permission-to-use-cop yrighted-material-in-a-thesis.pdf

If you do not use the form, try to obtain a signed letter, preferably with the publisher’s official letterhead, as signed documents may offer more legal protection than emails. Make sure that the copyright holder specifically agrees with the terms of the Spectrum license and the license with Library and Archives Canada.
Back to top
How to seek permission to include copyrighted works in your thesis - Proof of permission

Keep all correspondence (emails, letters, forms) exchanged with copyright holders. Do not include these documents in your thesis but keep them in your files as they constitute proof that you have obtained permission to use the copyrighted materials.

In your thesis, each time you use material for which you have obtained reproduction rights, you should include a statement such as “reproduced with permission from XYZ.”
Back to top
How to seek permission to include copyrighted works in your thesis - Permission denied

In the unusual case where the copyright holder denies permission to use the material, requests a charge for granting this right, or fails to respond to your request, the material must be removed from the thesis. This should only be done as a last resort when the reproduction is not considered fair dealing and you have made a reasonable effort to obtain permission from the right’s holder.

If you need to remove copyrighted material from your thesis, leave a space where the original document was located and, in its place, include:

    This statement: “this [text, photo, graph, image, etc.] was removed because of copyright restrictions.”
    A description of the material (in case of an image, a table or a graph) or a summary of its content (in the case of an article or book).
    A precise citation for the source of the material, referring to a physical copy if possible. If there is an online copy of the document, provide its URL.

Try to describe the missing material as precisely as possible so that readers will be able to understand references to it in your thesis.

Example:

    This table (fig. 31) was removed because of copyright restrictions.

    It describes voting coincidence between Latin American countries and the United States at the U.N., showing identical votes, opposite votes, abstentions and absences.

    Source: “Table 1007. U.N. Voting Coincidence with the United States, 20 L, 1990-99,” Statistical Abstract of Latin America, vol. 37. (Los Angeles: UCLA Latin American Center Publications, University of California, 2001), 245.

Back to top
Including Your Own Previously Published Work in Your Thesis

If you have published or are publishing a portion of your work (i.e., articles, poems, plays, music) and you wish also to include a substantial portion from that work in your thesis, please consider the copyright implications.

As early as possible in the publication process, inform the editor or publisher that you need to reproduce material from your work in your thesis. If you have co-authored the work, you should also inform the co-author(s) that you intend to use the results of your work in your thesis.

Authors usually sign a copyright transfer agreement when they publish. Quite often, this agreement transfers the copyright from the author(s) (i.e. you) to the publisher. If you want to use the content of the article in your thesis, you will need to maintain the right to re-use your own work. When signing an agreement with the publisher, read the terms of the publication agreement very carefully. Look for wording in the publishing agreement about the right to reproduce content from the article in a thesis that will be freely available on the web in an institutional repository (i.e. Spectrum). If you do not see such wording, ask to have it added.

Consider filling out and including a copy of the Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition (SPARC) Author Addendum with your publishing agreement. The Author Addendum is a form you can submit to your publisher which states that you want to retain the copyright for your work.

Keep your publishing agreement/waiver and all correspondence with the publisher on file as they are proof that you have permission to use the material in your thesis.

Finally, familiarize yourself with the section on the Manuscript-Based Thesis in the Thesis Preparation and Thesis Examination Regulations guide (pp. 9-11).
Back to top
The licence you will agree to

As a graduate student at Concordia, you hold the copyright of your thesis for the entire term of copyright protection. As a condition of receiving your degree, you are asked to grant  Concordia University permission to make the work openly available. At Concordia, your thesis is submitted through Spectrum, the University’s institutional repository. Upon deposit, you agree to Spectrum Concordia University Research Repository’s Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence.

The Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence

The Spectrum Concordia University Research Repository’s Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence has been revised (November 5, 2022) to include Library and Archives Canada’s Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence, formerly a separate document requiring signatures. 

The Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence stipulates that you own the copyright to your thesis but that Concordia University and Library and Archives Canada will: 

    ... archive, preserve on any medium and format, perform, produce, reproduce, translate theses and dissertations in any format, including but not limited to electronic, digital or paper format, and to make available in print or communicate online by telecommunication to the public, loan, distribute for non-commercial purposes, for research and private study.

You can enter into other agreements, such as publishing your thesis, so long as subsequent licence agreements respect that Concordia University and Library and Archives Canada have a non-exclusive right to make your thesis available. For example, you cannot assign an exclusive licence for your thesis to a publisher as part of a publishing contract, as you have already been granted a non-exclusive licence. Generally, you should inform any publisher interested in your thesis that it will be available on the Internet and in other databases by Concordia University and Library and Archives Canada.

While depositing your thesis is a requirement, you can place an embargo on your thesis for up to two years from your final submission date. Under exceptional circumstances and with written justification to the Thesis Office, the embargo may be renewed. See “deferment” in Student Guide To Thesis Preparation. Once embargoed and deposited, the abstract and basic bibliographical details will still appear to the public. 

IP Policy Background for the Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence

The Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence originates from the University’s Policy on Intellectual Property, which is also reflected in the University’s Graduate Calendar and the Thesis Regulations from the Thesis Office.

Paragraph 34 in the Policy on Intellectual Property (VPRGS-9):

    34. Upon submission of a thesis by a graduate student, the graduate student shall be deemed to have granted the University a non-exclusive, royalty free licence to reproduce, archive, preserve, conserve, communicate to the public by telecommunication or on the internet, loan, distribute the thesis worldwide for non-commercial purposes, in any format including electronic. In the event of a deferment of a thesis for distribution or publication, it is understood that the University’s licence to communicate, loan and/or distribute shall only take effect as of the expiry of the agreed upon deferment period.

Back to top
Conclusion

This Guide has provided a summary of the copyright issues to be aware of while preparing your thesis. The websites and documents that have been referenced in this Guide may be helpful in giving you more information about particular topics.

Different disciplines have their own accepted practices. Academic integrity and authorship practices in your discipline may provide more important constraints to using copyright protected works than the Copyright Act. Also, understanding how copyright functions is fundamental when considering using protected works. It is highly recommended that you consider such norms and issues, in consultation with your thesis supervisor, as early as possible while you write your thesis.

Please contact copyright.questions@concordia.ca if you have questions or comments. 
link: https://library.concordia.ca/research/copyright/theses.php

title: What is ORCID? 
description: ORCID stands for Open Researcher and Contributor ID. An ORCID iD is a unique, persistent identifier assigned to an individual researcher which disambiguates them from other researchers (i.e. 0000-0002-7256-0127).

This ID ensures that the author's research contributions — publications, grants, data sets, performances, and more — are correctly attributed.

It is a free, unique, digital research identifier used to associate your work with you. Unlike other research identifiers, ORCID is open source, open access, and non-profit. It also easily links to other IDs and their metrics.

Concordia University is a member of the national ORCID-CA Consortium coordinated by the Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN). The University strongly supports the adoption and use of ORCID by members of the Concordia community. 
link: https://library.concordia.ca/research/orcid/

title: Research data management guide
description: Data management is the storage, access and preservation of data produced during research. It covers the entire lifecycle of data, from planning the research to conducting it, and from backing up data during the project to long term preservation after the research has ended. (CASRAI)
Why manage your data?

Effective data management practices ensure that the data you collect today are used effectively and remain usable over time.

To understand how, watch this NYU Health Sciences Library video which highlights some common data mismanagement issues.

Hello! My name is Dr. Judy Benign, I'm an oncologist at NYU School of Medicine.
Hello, Dr. Judy Benign!
I read your article on B-cell function
I think that I could use the data for my work on pancreatic cancer.
I am not an oncologist!
I know but I think I could use the data for my work on pancreatic cancer.
Do you have the data?
Everything you need to know is in the article!
No. What I need is the data!
Will you share your data?
I am not sure that will be possible.
But your work is in PubMed Central and was funded by NIH. That is true!
... and it was published in Science which requires that you share your data.
I did publish in Science.
Then I am requesting your data!
Can I have a copy of your data?
I am not sure where my data is!
But surely you saved your data!
I did, I saved it on a USB drive!
Where is the USB drive?
It is in a box...
... it is in a box at home...
I just moved!
but can I use your data?
There are many boxes!
So many boxes!
I forgot to label the boxes.
Hello again!
Thank you for sending me a copy of your data on a USB drive,
I received the envelope yesterday.
You are welcome, but I will need
that back when you are finished,
that is my only copy!
I did have a question.
What is your question?
You might find the answer in my article!
No. I received the data,
but when I opened it up it was in hexadecimal. Yes - that is right!
I cannot read hexadecimal!
You asked for my data and I gave it to you. I have done what you asked.
But is there a way to read the hexadecimal?
You will need the program that created the hexadecimal file!
Yes, I will.
What is the name of the program? "Cytosynth"
I do not know this program.
It was a very good program!
The company that made it went bankrupt in 2007!
Do you have a copy of the program?
I do not use this program any more
because the company that made it when a bankrupt.
Maybe you can buy a copy on eBay?
I have good news!
I talked to my colleague...
she knew a person with a copy of the software! Then why do you need me?
Everything you need to know about the data is in the article!
I opened the data and I could not understand it!
If you have the program you will find it is clear!
Well...
I noticed that you called your data fields "Sam"...
Is that an abbreviation? Yes! It is an abbreviation of my co-author's name...
His name is Samuel Lee,
we call him "Sam".
I see... and what is the content of the field called "Sam1"? Ah yes...
"Sam1 is the level of CXCR4 expression.
and what is the content of the field called "Sam2"?
That is logical if you think about it!
What is the content of the field called "Sam2"?
I don't remember!
what about "Sam3"?
Is there a guide to the data anywhere? Yes, of course!
It is the article that is
published in Science!
The article does not tell me what the field names mean.
Is there any record of what these field names mean? Yes! My co-author knows what the content of Sam2 is...
and Sam3... and Sam4
Can I talk to your co-author?
I am not sure!
I would very much like to talk to you co-author. Well, he was a graduate student.
He went back to China 2 years ago.
Can I have his contact information?
He is in China...
his name is "Sam Lee".
I think I cannot use your data.
You could check the article...
to see if what you need is there!
Please stop talking now!



Here are some of the poor data management practices highlighted in the video

    The researcher did not consider that his data may be useful to others in different fields and therefore did not plan for sharing.
    The researcher was not aware of his funder’s and the publisher’s policies on sharing data.
    The researcher did not use a repository to share his data, but relied on people contacting him directly for it.
    The researcher only kept one copy of the data and he forgot where he had stored it.
    The data on the memory stick could have been lost or damaged during his move, or in the mail.
    The researcher used a data format that became obsolete, rather than an open format (such as csv, txt, etc).
    The researcher did not provide sufficient metadata to explain what the column headings meant.
    The researcher did not agree with his colleague on who would be responsible for keeping the data and metadata for the long term.




Effective RDM practices also...
increase research impact
Increase your research impact

Making your data available to other researchers can impact discovery and relevance of your research
save time
Save time

Planning ahead for your data management needs will save you time and resources
preserve data
Preserve your data

Depositing your data in a repository safeguards your investment of time and resources while preserving your research contribution for you and others to use
maintain data integrity
Maintain data integrity

Managing and documenting your data throughout its life cycle will allow you and others to understand and use your data in the future
meet funder requirements
Meet journal & funder requirements

Many funding agencies and journals now require that researchers deposit data collected as part of a research project
promote new discoveries
Promote new discoveries

Sharing your data with other researchers can lead to new and unanticipated discoveries and provide research material for those with little or no funding

link: https://library.concordia.ca/research/data/index.php

title: Spectrum Research Repository
description: Open Access at Concordia

Spectrum, Concordia University's open access research repository, provides access to and preserves research created at Concordia. By depositing in Spectrum, Concordia scholars provide free and immediate access to their work and thus increase the visibility of both their own research and their university's intellectual output. Open access leads to the increased research profile and impact of scholars by bringing about greater levels of readership and citation of their publications.

For more information, see "Concordia opens access to its research output" in the Concordia Journal.

Find out more about Open Access and Support for Open Access Publishing at Concordia on the Library's website.
Spectrum Annual Report

The Research Repository's Thirteenth Annual Report, 2022 (pdf) (April 2023).

Concordia University does not claim copyright over anything deposited in Spectrum.

Spectrum: Concordia University Research Repository supports OAI 2.0 with a base URL of https://spectrum.library.concordia.ca/cgi/oai2 
link: https://spectrum.library.concordia.ca/

title: How to write an annotated bibliography
description: What is an annotated bibliography?
An annotated bibliography is a list of the sources (e.g. books, journal articles, etc.) that you used to research a topic in preparation for writing a term paper. In an annotated bibliography, each source in the list is followed by a brief descriptive and evaluative paragraph of 4-5 sentences (approx. 150 words or more), which can also include its relevance to your paper topic. An annotated bibliography should inform the reader by providing a clear indication of each source's relevancy, accuracy and quality.

General guidelines
Carefully read the course assignment instructions.
If you are still unclear, check with your professor on the type of annotated bibliography that is required for the assignment.
Main Types of Annotated Bibliographies:
Summary/descriptive – provides a concise overview of the main arguments, evidence presented, and conclusions
Critical/evaluative – in addition to providing an overview, analyzes the content; comments on the strengths and weaknesses of the arguments, evidence, and conclusions; explains the usefulness of the source for your research topic.
Combination - most annotated bibliography assignments require that you include both an overview and evaluative comments.
Most annotated bibliographies organize sources alphabetically by the first author's last name.
Consistently follow the rules of the style guide (APA, MLA, Chicago, Other Guides) that is indicated in your course assignment instructions; the style guide will detail what information to include for each type of source and how it should be formatted.
For more detailed guidelines on writing an annotated bibliography, please refer to the following:
Carleton University Libraries: Writing an Annotated Bibliography
Purdue Online Writing Lab (OWL): Annotated Bibliographies
University of Alberta Libraries: Annotated Bibliographies
University of Toronto: Writing an Annotated Bibliography

Sample entries from annotated bibliographies
Summary/descriptive type (in APA style)
Sampson, R. J., Raudenbush, S. W., & Earls, F. (1997). Neighborhoods and violent crime: A multilevel study of collective efficacy. Science, 277, 918–924.

Analysis of data gathered by the Project on Human Development in Chicago Neighborhoods indicates that although racial and socioeconomic inequalities are relevant factors, they are not the singular or primary influences on neighborhood crime. Findings suggest that neighborhood violence is predicted by measures of informal social control, social cohesion and trust, and perceptions of violence. Consistent with the social organization model, collective efficacy is shown to mediate the influence of residential stability in predicting neighborhood violence.

Note: the example above is taken from:
Brossoie, N., Graham, B., & Lee, S. (2005). Families and communities: An annotated bibliography. Family Relations: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Applied Family Studies, 54(5), 666-675. doi:10.1111/j.1741-3729.2005.00350.x


Other sample entries
Purdue Online Writing Center (OWL) provides sample entries for the three main types of annotated bibliographies using APA, MLA, and Chicago styles: summary/descriptive, critical/evaluative, and combination.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/writing/annotated-bibliography.php

title: How to write a book review and a book report
description: About
A book review is a descriptive and critical/evaluative account of a book. It provides a summary of the content, assesses the value of the book, and recommends it (or not) to other potential readers.

A book report is an objective summary of the main ideas and arguments that the book's author has presented. The purpose of the report is to give enough information to help decide whether the book will be of use or interest to any potential readers.

Common points that both book reviews and book reports share are presented below. The last point, Critical Comments, is intended only for those writing book reviews.

Bibliographical Information
Give the author's name; full title of book including subtitle; editor, if any; place, publisher and date of publication; edition, if necessary; and the number of pages - all this in the appropriate bibliographical style (APA, MLA, Chicago, etc.) under the title of the review or report.

Background information
Supply any information about the author which shows their credentials for writing in this field or which reveals any influences which may have affected the author's point of view. Note any interesting circumstances that led to the writing of the book.

Intended audience
The author's intention may be apparent by the way the subject of the book is treated. Is the material meant for specialists, students, or the general public? Is it focused on a specific subject or is it a general survey of a wider subject? Several areas may provide clues: appendices, bibliographies and general indexes usually accompany scholarly works; prefaces and introductions often contain an author's explicit statement of intention; the content and style of expression will be a good indication of the intended audience.

Subject and thesis statement
What is the book about? Tell your reader not only the main concern of the book in its entirety (subject) but also what the author's particular point of view is on that subject (thesis statement). If you cannot find an adequate statement in the author's own words or if you feel that the stated thesis statement is not that which the book actually develops (make sure you check for yourself), then you will have to compose a thesis statement that does cover all the material. This statement must be brief (a sentence or a paragraph), accurate and comprehensive.

Summary of content
The summary is based on your reading notes, follows the author's order, and consists solely of the main ideas which advance the author's argument. It may be presented with the analysis of structure or discussed separately.

Critical comments (book reviews)
Critical comments should form the bulk of the book review. State whether or not you feel the author's treatment of the subject matter is appropriate for the intended audience. Ask yourself:

Has the purpose of the book been achieved?
What contribution does the book make to the field?
Is the treatment of the subject matter objective?
Are there facts and evidence that have been omitted?
What kinds of data, if any, are used to support the author's thesis statement?
Can the same data be interpreted to alternate ends?
Is the writing style clear and effective?
Does the book raise issues or topics for discussion?
Support your evaluation with evidence from the text. In conclusion, you may want to state whether you liked or disliked the book.

Sources on writing book reviews
Concordia Library sources:

Buckley, J. (2013). Fit to print: the Canadian student's guide to essay writing. (see pages 180-185).
Drewry, J. E. (1974). Writing book reviews.

Sources on writing book reports
Concordia Library sources:

Northey, M. & McKibbin, J. (2010). Making sense: A student's guide to research and writing.
Teitelbaum, H. (1982). How to write book reports.
Web sites:

Purdue Online Writing Lab. (2011). Writing a Book Report
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/writing/book-report.php

title: How to write a literature review
description: What is a literature review
The literature review is a written overview of major writings and other sources on a selected topic. Sources covered in the review may include scholarly journal articles, books, government reports, Web sites, etc. The literature review provides a description, summary and evaluation of each source. It is usually presented as a distinct section of a graduate thesis or dissertation.

Purpose of the literature review
The purpose of the literature review is to provide a critical written account of the current state of research on a selected topic:

Identifies areas of prior scholarship
Places each source in the context of its contribution to the understanding of the specific issue, area of research, or theory under review.
Describes the relationship of each source to the others that you have selected
Identifies new ways to interpret, and shed light on any gaps in, previous research
Points the way forward for further research.

Components of the literature review
The literature review should include the following:

Objective of the literature review
Overview of the subject under consideration.
Clear categorization of sources selected into those in support of your
particular position, those opposed, and those offering completely different arguments.
Discussion of both the distinctiveness of each source and its similarities with the others.

Steps in the literature review process
Preparation of a literature review may be divided into four steps:

Define your subject and the scope of the review.
Search the library catalogue, subject specific databases and other search tools to find sources that are relevant to your topic.
Read and evaluate the sources and to determine their suitability to the understanding of topic at hand (see the Evaluating sources section).
Analyse, interpret and discuss the findings and conclusions of the sources you selected.

Evaluating sources
In assessing each source, consideration should be given to:

What is the author's expertise in this particular field of study (credentials)?
Are the author's arguments supported by empirical evidence (e.g. quantitative/qualitative studies)?
Is the author's perspective too biased in one direction or are opposing studies and viewpoints also considered?
Does the selected source contribute to a more profound understanding of the subject?

Examples of a published literature review
Literature reviews are often published as scholarly articles, books, and reports. Here is an example of a recent literature review published as a scholarly journal article:

Ledesma, M. C., & Calderón, D. (2015). Critical race theory in education: A review of past literature and a look to the future. Qualitative Inquiry, 21(3), 206-222. Link to the article

Additional sources on writing literature reviews
Further information on the literature review process may be found below:

Booth, A., Papaioannou, D., & Sutton, A. (2012). Systematic approaches to a successful literature review
Fink, A. (2010). Conducting research literature reviews: From the Internet to paper
Galvin, J. (2006). Writing literature reviews: A guide for students of the social and behavioral sciences
Machi, L. A., & McEvoy, B. T. (2012). The literature review: Six steps to success


Adapted with permission and thanks from How to Write a Literature Review originally created by Kenneth Lyons, McHenry Library, University of California, Santa Cruz.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/writing/literature-review.php

title: How to write a research paper
description: About
There is no magic formula for writing a successful research paper. It is basically a question of learning to organize your time and materials effectively. The steps outlined below can help serve as a general guide for writing your next paper. For more detailed information on researching and writing term papers or essays, consult the Books on researching and writing term papers section that appears below. Individualized writing assistance is offered by the Student Success Centre's Learning Support.

Start early
Begin working on your research paper as soon in the semester as possible. Take advantage of the time at your disposal to do your research and writing in order to meet the assignment due date. If you wait until the last minute, you may have difficulty finding the best materials, particularly if other students are researching the same topic, and you may also feel pressured by other assignment deadlines.

Selecting the topic
Keeping in mind the guidelines your instructor has set down for the assignment in terms of length, subject matter, types of sources, etc. If possible, try to select a topic that is of interest to you, even if it may appear to be the most difficult one. Avoid broad topics for research papers. Try to narrow your topic to one particular aspect that you will be able to investigate thoroughly within the prescribed limits of your paper.

Background reading
If the topic is unfamiliar to you, consider doing some background reading to help you to develop your understanding. Subject encyclopedias and handbooks provide concise, scholarly overviews and they often refer you to major writings on the topic. Consult the appropriate Subject or course guide for the encyclopedias and handbooks in your area of research or simply ask a librarian.

Researching the topic
Your next step is to verify that there are sufficient and relevant sources and that they meet the requirements of the assignment (e.g. scholarly journal articles). This will require using Library resources, the tools for locating books and journal articles. There are subject librarians to assist you with finding the best sources for your specific topic.

Preparing an outline
Map out your approach by composing a detailed sentence outline. First, compose a thesis statement. This one sentence statement is the most important one of your entire research paper so be sure to phrase it carefully. A thesis statement clearly communicates the subject of your paper and the approach you are going to take. It is the controlling factor to which all information that follows must relate. Secondly, group and regroup your notes according to the various aspects of your topic until you find a sequence that seems logical. This can serve as the basis for your outline.

Writing and revising a rough draft
In writing a rough draft you are striving for a flow of ideas. Write using your final outline and organized notes as guides. Do not worry about correct spelling or punctuation at this stage. Remember that the purpose of a rough draft is to see if you have a logical progression of arguments and sufficient supporting material.

Make the necessary adjustments until you are satisfied your statements flow logically and your ideas have been fully presented in clear, concise prose. You may need to review your documentation if some sections of your text need further development.

Writing the bibliography (list of sources used)
Be sure you have all of the publication information (author, title, date, pages, etc.) appropriate for each source that you consulted. This information will then be compiled in a bibliography. A bibliography is a listing of all the sources you consulted in writing your research paper. You must closely follow the specific rules for writing bibliographies that are provided in style manuals, the most common ones being APA, MLA, and Chicago. These style manuals will also guide you on the correct way of citing (attributing) each of your sources in the content of your paper (see the Plagiarism section below). Concordia University provides a Web-based tool, Zotero , that helps organize the references you find, incorporates citations into the content of your paper, and automatically prepares a bibliography in the style appropriate for the particular assignment.

Proofreading
You are now ready to focus primarily on the style of your paper rather than the content. Make use of:

a dictionary or spellcheck for correct spelling
a thesaurus for synonyms
a grammar book

Plagiarism
Representing another person's ideas as your own within the context of your term paper is plagiarism. Serious penalties can be exercised against students who plagiarize, not the least of which can include failure of the course for which the paper was submitted. Please consult Concordia University's position on plagiarism.

Play it safe - acknowledge any use of another person's ideas, whether the information is quoted directly, paraphrased, or summarized. The correct procedures for citing (attributing) sources is described in the style manual guides.

Selected books on researching and writing term papers
Bailey, S. (2015). Academic writing: A handbook for international students.

Buckley, J. (2013). Fit to print: The Canadian student's guide to essay writing

Hunt, A. (2005). Your research project: How to manage it. (e-book)

Lester, J. D., & Lester, J. (2015). Writing research papers: A complete guide.

Northey, M., & McKibbin, J. (2010). Making sense: A student's guide to research and writing

Making sense books on specific subject areas from the same author:

Engineering and the technical sciences
Geography and environmental sciences
Life sciences
Psychology and the life sciences
Social sciences
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/writing/research-paper.php

title: Copyright Overview
description: Copyright overview
Copyright as Intellectual Property (IP)

As IPdefined by the Canadian Intellectual Property Office, “IP is what you create, invent or develop as a result of your intellectual activity.” As with other types of property, the owner of the property has certain rights. IP rights include but are not limited to:

    copyright
    patents
    trademarks
    industrial designs

This guide covers copyright only.

Learn more about your author rights at Concordia.

Concordia's Policy on Intellectual Property (VPRGS-9) further specifies the IP rules and rights that apply to students and staff.
IP groups and subgroups
The IP groups and subgroups figure is a translation of Figure: La famille des droits de propriété intellectuelle (DPI) by La Bibliothèque de l'Université Laval, Bureau du droit d'auteur, and is used with permission.

IP can be divided into two main groups: Copyright (literary or artistic) and Industrial Property. These two groups contain subgroups.

Copyright includes literary works (including software) and dramatic, musical and artistic works.

Industrial Property includes patents, plant breeds, protected geographical indication (PGI) and protected designations of origins (PDO) (to protect food and drink products from specific regions or produced with traditional processes), trademarks, designs and models.
About copyright

This video and quiz are from Module 1: An Introduction to the CARL Copyright Training Modules, by the Canadian Association of Research Libraries (CARL), and are used under a CC BY-NC 4.0 licence.
Copyright is...

Transferable: Copyright can be transferred from a creator or an owner to others.

About balance: Copyright is designed to balance the rights of content creators and of users of content.

Automatic: Copyright automatically applies to original and fixed works. That means that you do not need to register your copyright or include a © symbol for copyright to exist over a work.

Multiple rights: Copyright consists of a bundle of moral and economic rights. Some of these rights are discussed on this website.
How does copyright in Canada work?

In Canada, copyright is governed by the Copyright Act (R.S.C. 1985, c. C-42) which regulates the use and reproduction of intellectual and artistic creations.

Among other things, copyright protects works from being copied, published, reproduced, performed or distributed without the permission of the copyright holder (usually the author or the creator of the work). The Copyright Act provides exceptions for special circumstances such as education and research.

Copyright automatically applies to original and fixed works such as books, articles, videos, music, paintings, photographs, digital works, broadcasts, and performances.

When using and distributing copyrighted work, you should not reproduce, adapt, distribute, or perform copyrighted work unless at least one of the following conditions applies:

    you have permission from the copyright holder
    your use qualifies for fair dealing
    another exception included in the Copyright Act applies
    a licence allows you to do so
    the work is in the public domain
    an Open Access licence, for example, a Creative Commons licence, authorizes its use, and you use it in accordance with the terms of that licence
    it is an unsubstantial part of the work and is properly cited/quoted

In addition, at Concordia University, the Policy on Copyright Compliance as well as the Copyright Guidelines for Instructors have specific rules for our community.
Copyright Act

The following sections highlight some parts of the Copyright Act that are relevant to learning and research at Concordia.
Citation and attribution

Proper citing of sources is essential in academic work and in research. The Copyright Act, however, does not dictate any particular citation style. Copyright laws do not contain rules about proper citation; instead, citation is part of the rules regarding academic integrity, research integrity, and proper scholarship.

That being said, academic integrity and citation touch upon a creator’s moral right to attribution, which falls under the Copyright Act (s. 14.1 of the Copyright Act). Indeed, the Copyright Act describes the importance of acknowledging the maker or author and the source of a work (s. 29), and failure to do so could be an infringement of the Copyright Act. It is worth noting that the title and subtitle of a work are considered part of the work (s. 2).

Although citation styles are not part of the Copyright Act, the order and format for the attribution elements of author, title, and source are regimented by proper citation practices, which are essential in academic work and research. For more information on citing and quoting material, consult Concordia’s Academic Code of Conduct and see the section of the Concordia website about academic integrity. Guides to citation styles (such as MLA style, APA style) are also available on the Library's website.
Moral rights

Moral rights include the author’s rights of paternity, integrity and association with respect to their work.

The right of paternity includes the author’s right to claim authorship over the work, their right to use a pseudonym or pen name, or their right to remain anonymous.

The right of integrity allows the author the right to not have their work distorted, mutilated or modified in a way that is harmful to the author’s honour or reputation.

The right of association is related to the right of integrity. It provides the author with the right to bar others from using that author’s work in association with an entity, cause, product or service.
Ideas, facts, and originality

Ideas and facts are not protected by copyright, but the original expression of an idea or of facts may be. For example, if a person had a new idea for a research study, the idea is not protected by copyright, but their planning notes would be.

Only works that are original and fixed are protected by copyright. A work is "fixed" when produced in any media, like paper or within a digital file. A work is considered "original" when it is the product of the author's own skill, judgment, and creativity, and it has not been merely copied. An original work demonstrates more than a trivial, mechanical level of skill and judgement.

For instance, statistical data on the Montreal population is not protected, but a table presenting these data in a specific way may be. Data is not an original creation—anyone could collect the raw numbers. However, the creator of a table presenting the data may exhibit skill and judgement in their representation, and the ensuing representation could be protected by copyright.
Duration of copyright

After copyright expires, a work becomes part of the public domain and may be freely copied, distributed, adapted and performed without permission from the author or the payment of royalties. In most cases, copyright lasts up until 70 years after the creator’s death following the end of the calendar year. Generally, copyright protection expires on the 31st of December in the year dated to 70 years after the creator’s death.

When assessing the duration of copyright note that the term of copyright increased from life plus 50 years on December 30, 2022 (s. 6). Works that entered the public domain before December 30, 2022, with the life of the creator plus 50 years, remain out of copyright. A term of life plus 50 years generally applies to works where the author died before December 30, 1972.

Exceptions to the life of the creator plus 70 years exist for specific types of works, including anonymous works, posthumous works, joint authorship, cinematographic works, and crown copyright (s. 6-12). For example, for cinematographic works (most feature films), copyright lasts for 70 years after the making of the work and can be extended to 75 years if the work is published before copyright expires to a maximum of 100 years from the making (s. 11.1).
Copying, scanning, or reproducing for private personal use

You may make a copy of a portion of a work if you are using a non-infringing copy which you have legally obtained and which you will use for your private purposes or for other purposes permitted under the Copyright Act. This includes uses of that material in a manner that complies with the fair dealing exception or other exceptions under the Copyright Act. Otherwise, in order to use a work, a specific agreement, such as a licence agreement, must exist between you and the copyright holder.

With respect to the fair dealing exception, it is important to note that how much of a work can be copied, or what might be considered "fair," is not defined in the Copyright Act and must be analyzed on a case-by-case basis. For more information see the sections Substantial/insubstantial and fair dealing.
Digital distribution: Email and internet

How much or how little of a work one can deliver electronically to one or many colleagues, students or staff depends upon the fair dealing provisions and other exceptions in the Copyright Act.
Email

It is generally not advisable to attach copyrighted works to an email unless you own copyright over the work or have been explicitly granted the right to do so. If you wish to share an electronic article, website, or other electronic resources with others, it is preferable to provide a permanent link and bibliographic reference in your email. For example, if you wish to send an article from an electronic journal provided by the Library to a colleague, a student or group of students at Concordia, send the link to the article, not the entire article (see: How to create permanent links to online articles). A colleague at another university may obtain the document from their home institution. If you wish to share a webpage, it is preferable to provide the link in the email as opposed to attaching the page to your message.
Internet

If you post copyrighted works on a publicly accessible website, you potentially would not benefit from an exception under the Copyright Act’s research or private study exception since this is a form of distribution. On the other hand, fair dealing allows education, parody, satire, criticism, review and news reporting, which may require posting a work on the internet. The quantity of the image, recording, video, text, and other works that you post should be proportional to the amount of criticism, review and news reporting that is done, and proper attribution must always be given to the original creator. It is preferable to provide links to the work rather than reproduce it in whole or substantially on the open internet.
Insubstantial/substantial

The Copyright Act protects substantial parts of works as well as whole works. Copyright specifically protects a "work or any substantial part thereof" (s. 3 of the Copyright Act), which implies that use of insubstantial parts of works protected by copyright are permissible pursuant to the Copyright Act.

Since "substantial" is not defined in the Act, the quantity and importance of what is being copied must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. In deciding whether a part of a work is considered substantial, the whole work must be considered. A few sentences from a novel would probably be considered insubstantial but a single line from a poem might be essential to the work and be considered substantial.

Keep in mind that the legal distinction between insubstantial and substantial could be further clarified by future case decisions.

Guiding questions include:

    Am I using only what is needed to serve a permitted purpose such as to make my argument or give adequate context?
    Can I make my point using something that I created myself?
    Will the creator’s copyrights be adversely affected by my use of this portion of the work?

The Insubstantial/substantial section was modified from Substantiality Guidelines by Western University and is used under a CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 licence.
Quotation

It is generally understood that quotations fall under the “insubstantial use” doctrine, so long as they are of a reasonable length. The maximum allowable length of a quotation will depend on many factors such as the length and nature of the original work. For example, quoting half of a short poem is probably not an “insubstantial” use, while quoting a few paragraphs from a scholarly book may qualify as insubstantial.
Your discipline matters

Different disciplines have their own accepted practices. Academic integrity and authorship practices in your discipline may provide more important constraints to using insubstantial parts of copyright protected works (i.e., in determining the maximum length of a citation) than the Copyright Act. If you are a graduate student, it is highly recommended that you discuss such norms with your thesis supervisor or thesis committee or contact your subject librarian.
Exceptions
Educational exceptions

(s. 29.4 to 30.04)

Under certain conditions, educational institutions or persons acting under their authority can make limited copies for instruction and examinations. See also sections of our guide covering translation and performance, broadcasting and playing sound recordings and images.
Work available through the internet

You may, for educational or training purposes, do any of the following with a work available through the internet (s. 30.04):

    reproduce it,
    transmit it electronically to your students,
    perform it for an audience consisting of your students, and
    do any other act necessary for the purpose of the above acts.

However, the following conditions must be met:

    You must give attribution to the creator and source of the material.
    No technological protection measure restricts access to the material or the website where it is posted, such as a measure like a password that limits the material to individual use.
    The work or other subject-matter was not posted on the internet without the consent of the copyright owner.

Libraries, museums and archives exceptions

Canadian libraries, archives and museums benefit from exceptions that facilitate the delivery of print and electronic works. They may do anything that individuals may do for themselves so long as it is for private study, research, education, parody, satire, criticism or review (sections 30.1 to 30.4). For example, library personnel are allowed to make a copy of an article to be placed on course reserve for a faculty member.
Exception for persons with perceptual disabilities

Reproduction in alternate format

The Copyright Act (s. 32) allows copying, translation, adaptation and reproduction of literary, musical, artistic or dramatic works to create a document in a format specifically designed for persons with perceptual disabilities. This exception does not apply in cases where the work is commercially available in an appropriate format or for cinematographic works.
Fair dealing

The Fair Dealing Week video by University of Winnipeg Library is used under a CC-BY 4.0 licence.
Overview

"Fair dealing" offers some exceptions to the Copyright Act's general prohibition on copying. Faculty members, students, university staff, educational institutions, libraries, museums, and archives benefit from fair dealing (s. 29.4 to 30.4).

To qualify for fair dealing, the use of a copyrighted work must meet two conditions:

    The use of a copyrighted work is for one of the following purposes:
        research,
        private study,
        education,
        parody,
        satire,
        criticism,
        review, or
        news reporting.
    The dealing is fair.

In the CCH Canadian Ltd. V. Law Society of Upper Canada [2004] decision, the Supreme Court proposed the following criteria (a six-factor test) for evaluating whether a dealing is fair:

    The purpose or goal of your use. Ask yourself what the real purpose or motive is when reproducing or distributing a work. A non-commercial purpose is more likely to be fair. It must be an allowable purpose.
    The character of your use. Ask yourself how you will copy and distribute the work. A single, one-off copy is more likely to be fair than multiple, widely distributed copies.
    The amount you are using. A small portion tends to be fairer than a large portion of a work. No more of the work should be used than is reasonably necessary to achieve the intended purpose.
    Whether there are alternatives to the use. Your use is more likely to be fair if there were no reasonable alternatives to making the copy.
    The nature of the work being used. Copying works that are not confidential or were intended to be widely shared is more likely to be fair.
    The effect on the market for the original work. Copying will tend to be fair if it has no detrimental impact on sales of the original.

The purpose, character, amount, and alternatives available must be considered and outweigh the nature and the effect of the dealing on the work.

The Overview section was modified from Copyright Open Educational Resource for University Instructors and Staff by the Canadian Association of Research Libraries (CARL) and is used under a CC BY-NC 4.0 licence.
Fair dealing flowchart

The flowchart below can guide you through considering whether fair dealing applies to your situation.
This flowchart was adapted from the Fair dealing flowchart by the University of Waterloo Copyright Advisory Committee and is used under a CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 licence.
Fair dealing for using copyright-protected work in research or education

The fair dealing six-factor test applies on a case-by-case basis whereby the interplay between factors generates overlap. The six factors need to be evaluated collectively in each use case.
Six-factor test

Consider where your use falls on the fairness continuum:
1 - Fundamental purpose
Unfair

Commercial
Fair

Research and education are two of the allowable purposes.
Fair Dealing and Open Educational Resources

Code of Best Practices in Fair Dealing for Open Educational Resources: A Guide for Authors, Adapters   Adopters of Openly Licensed Teaching and Learning Materials in Canada

Canadian Open Educational Resources authors and instructors adapting or customizing openly licensed materials may want to consult best practices for fair dealing. The code is a Canadian adaptation of the Code of Best Practices in Fair Use for Open Educational Resources. The adaptation is the result of extensive work from Canadian Copyright librarians and officers from the CARL working group and subsequent review from notable legal scholars, Carys J. Craig and Lucie Guibault, and practicing lawyer Michal Jaworski.
Licences

Licences are contracts that regulate the reproduction and use of works alongside the requirements of the Copyright Act. Some licences impose other restrictions on the use and reproduction of works. Others waive certain rights that are part of the Copyright Act. In the context of the university, faculty members and students should know about the following types of licences:

    The COPIBEC licence, which is an agreement between COPIBEC and the majority of Quebec universities, regulates the reproduction and distribution of copies of works for teaching. The licence specifies limitations on what can be reproduced (such as percentage of total work, type of work) and the payment of royalty fees. Learn more about the COPIBEC licence. For information on the creation of course packs and ePacks, see the most recent COPIBEC memo issued by the Office of the Provost.
    Most of the databases available through the Library have licences that govern use and reproduction of their contents. For instance, while some database licences allow for full-text journal articles to be sent to oneself by email, others do not. Most of the licences limit the usage of the database to non-commercial purposes. If you are uncertain about using one of the Library's databases, contact your subject librarian.
    Open licences such as Creative Commons licences.

Basic concepts

Creative Commons (CC)
    CC licences are standard copyright licences that any creator can apply to their work to allow others to share, remix, or use their work without requiring permission.

(From CC Licences and OER on Concordia Library's Open Educational Resources guide).

Creator/author
    The author or creator holds copyright in their work as soon as it is created, unless and until they assign that right to another person, company, or organization. Publishing a work and creating a work during the course of employment are two situations in which copyright is often transferred.

"Creator/author" is adapted from Who owns copyright in the works I create at Simon Fraser University? by Simon Fraser University Library and is used under a CC BY-NC 4.0 licence.

Exceptions to infringement of copyrights
    Exceptions in the Copyright Act help balance the rights of authors and the rights of users of copyright-protected materials. Under certain purposes and certain conditions, exceptions allow for some use of works by those who do not own the copyright. Examples include Educational Institutions, Libraries, Archives and Museums, Persons with Perceptual Disabilities, Fair Dealing, Non-commercial User-generated Content, Reproduction for Private Purposes, Fixing Signals and Recording Programs for Later Listening or Viewing and Backup Copies.
Fair dealing
    The fair dealing exception in the Copyright Act allows you to use other people’s copyright-protected material for the purpose of research, private study, education, satire, parody, criticism, review, or news reporting, provided that what you do with the work is ‘fair’ pursuant to the law. The fair dealing section of this guide has more information on criteria that determine fairness in the use of a work. (See section on fair dealing.)

    “Fair dealing” is adapted from What is fair dealing and how does it relate to copyright? by Simon Fraser University Library and is used under a CC BY-NC 4.0 licence.
Fixed work
    A work is "fixed" when it is produced onto any media, like paper or within a digital file. Only works that are original and fixed are protected by copyright.
Licences
    Licences are contracts that regulate the reproduction and use of works. Some licences impose further restrictions on the use and reproduction of works and some waive certain rights that are part of the Copyright Act.

Concordia University has signed the COPIBEC licence, and Concordia University Library subscribes to licences, allowing access to electronic resources and publications through Concordia Library’s databases (see: Licences). The Library’s Usage Rights Database has information about licence restrictions for most of the Library’s databases and other digital resources.

Moral rights
    Separate from economic rights, the creator of a copyright-protected work also holds moral rights, which include the right of paternity over the work (to claim authorship, remain anonymous or adopt a pseudonym); the right of integrity of the work (to prevent distortion, modification or mutilation of a work); and the right of association with the work (to control activities associated with a work). 

“Moral rights” is copied from What are moral rights and what do they have to do with copyright? by Simon Fraser University Library and is used under a CC BY-NC 4.0 licence.

Public domain
    The public domain consists of works that are not protected by copyright or on which their copyright protection has expired. In Canada, for works not in the public domain before 2023, the term of copyright is the life of the author plus 70 years, and 75 years after publication of cinematographic works and sound recordings. Works that are not under copyright are part of the public domain and can be freely copied, distributed, adapted and performed without permission nor payment of royalties.

Rights holder
    The rights holder is the person or entity (such as an editor or organization) who owns copyright in a work. Economic rights pursuant to this ownership include the right to produce, reproduce, present, communicate or publish the work, or to authorize said uses and to benefit financially from the work. Economic rights can be licensed (temporarily) or assigned (permanently) and are different from the moral rights of the author.

"Rights holder" is adapted from What rights does a copyright owner have? by Simon Fraser University and is used under a CC BY-NC 4.0 licence.
Technological protection measures (TPM) / Digital locks / DRM
    Technological protection measures (TPM, also known as digital locks or digital rights management (DRM)) are any digital management tools used to restrict what users can do with digital materials. TPM are defined in Canada's Copyright Act as:

        “any effective technology, device or component that, in the ordinary course of its operation, (a) controls access to a work, to a performer's performance fixed in a sound recording or to a sound recording and whose use is authorized by the copyright owner; or restricts the doing – with respect to a work, to a performer's performance fixed in a sound recording or to a sound recording – of any act referred to in section 3, 15 or 18 and any act for which remuneration is payable under section 19.” (s. 41)

    TPM are generally put in place by the copyright holder or content provider (i.e., website owner) to control the ways in which that content can be used. The Copyright Act prohibits the circumvention of a TPM, even to instructors in an educational institution under the Educational exceptions.

What are technological protection measures?

There are two types of TPM:

    access control measures, which restrict access to a work, and
    copy control measures, which restrict what can be done with the work.

Examples of access control TPM include:

    passwords,
    paywalls or subscriptions,
    registration keys,
    time limits (e.g. 48-hour movie rental),
    limits on the number of simultaneous users (e.g. library ebooks),
    encryption/scrambling (e.g. regional encoding on DVDs, IP blocking based on location) and
    selective incompatibility (e.g. a CD that will read in a CD player but not a computer CD drive).

Examples of copy control TPM include:

    read-only works (e.g. ebooks),
    download blocking (e.g. streaming content),
    copy blocking (e.g. digital music and movies),
    print blocking,
    labeling and
    watermarks.

"Technological protection measures (TPM)" is adapted from Technological Protection Measures (TPM) - Fact Sheet by Simon Fraser University and is used under a CC BY-NC 4.0 licence.
Terms of use / terms of service
    Online content on websites will often have a use agreement of some kind which has implications for copyright. The terms of use for a website, sometimes known as terms of service, will typically be found in a link (frequently named “Legal” or “Terms”) on the bottom of a webpage.

It is your sole responsibility to review and respect terms of use / terms of service.
FAQ
General FAQ

1. What is copyright? What does it do?

    In Canada, copyright is governed by the Copyright Act (R.S.C. 1985, c. C-42) which regulates the use and reproduction of intellectual and artistic creations.

    Copyright protects original work from being copied, performed or distributed without the permission of the copyright holder. The Copyright Act, however, provides exceptions to allow certain uses of copyrighted works, such as the use of copyrighted works for education and research. (See: Copyright Overview).
2. What is covered by copyright?

    Copyright automatically applies to original works such as books, articles, videos, movies, music, images, paintings, photographs, digital works, broadcasts and performances. It does not apply to facts and ideas. (See: Copyright Overview).
3. How do I know if I can legally reproduce, translate, or adapt someone else’s work?

    The question of whether you can use someone else’s work depends on whether the work is currently copyright protected and whether a licence authorizes you to do so or an exception applies. If the work is copyrighted, and there is no applicable licence or exception, you will need to ask permission. Depending on the particulars of your use, you may need to:

        Investigate whether the work is in the public domain
        Consider whether your use is an insubstantial part of the work
        Confirm if you already have permission such as through a licence, including open licences
        Validate if the Copyright Act provides an exception in such circumstances (education, research, library, archive)
        Read up on whether your use qualifies as fair dealing
        Ask for permission from the copyright holder

4. How can I get permission to use someone’s work?

    When seeking permission, seek it in writing. The first step is to determine who holds copyright in the work that you want to use. Note that this is not always the author/creator and can sometimes be an editor, agent, publisher or someone else. Then, contact the rightsholder to seek permission.

    If you are a graduate student, see how to seek permission to include copyright works in your thesis.
5. Are there cases where copyright doesn’t apply, and I can freely reproduce, adapt, or translate someone else’s work?

    Copyright doesn’t apply to titles, names, slogans, word combinations, ideas, and facts – as well as works with expired copyright (public domain). In addition, some creators intentionally choose to allow others to freely reproduce their work, often by applying open licences. Learn more about open use.

    It should be noted, however, that there may be situations where copyright does not apply but another intellectual property right, like trademark law or patent law does. This is especially true in the case of corporate names, logos, slogans, etc.

    It should also be noted that you can freely use your own work unless you have transferred copyright over that work to a publisher or another individual. In that case, you may need to obtain appropriate permissions from the current copyright holder.

    See also:

        Substantial/insubstantial
        Exceptions
        Fair dealing

6. How do I know if something is in the public domain?

    Works over which copyright protection has expired are part of the "public domain" and can be freely copied, distributed, adapted, and performed without permission from the author or the payment of royalties. Learn more about the public domain and open use.

    It is worth noting, however, that translations and other ‘original’ adaptations and annotations are also protected by copyright, so if you plan on using a translation, adaptation or annotation of a work, even if the original work is in the public domain, you will need to check to see if that work is also in the public domain.
7. Can I use copyright-protected work, including images and videos, for teaching (on Moodle, in lecture slides, as handouts in class, etc.)?

    Before using copyright-protected work such as images and videos for teaching, please refer to the For Instructors section. You can also learn about Open Educational Resources, which can be reproduced and shared freely. For instance, it is not an infringement of copyright for educational or training purposes in respect of a work that is available through the internet to reproduce it or perform it, if the work is not protected by a technological protection measure (like a digital lock), and there is no prohibition to such reproduction or performance in a clearly visible notice (s. 30.04 Work available through the internet). There can be some limits to the amount of material that can be reproduced from any given copyright-protected work and in the ways the content can be shared.
8. I’m a student. Can I use images and videos from the internet in assignments and projects for my courses?

    Although there are websites that allow free downloading of images, mostly for personal use only, many websites include copyrighted images. Find out more about whether your use constitutes fair dealing and visit the By media type section.

    Fair dealing (s. 29.1) allows you to make copies of images that are copyright protected for the purposes of research, private study, education, parody, satire, criticism, and review.
9. Do I have copyright over the work I produce as a Concordia student, faculty or staff?

    In most cases, students have copyright over their coursework. It is worth noting, however, that there are some exceptions to this principle, e.g., when a student has signed a sponsorship agreement, is a co-author to a work, or in particular instances when another intellectual property right other than copyright may apply. See the For students section of this website as well as Concordia's Policy on Intellectual Property.

    Faculty and staff members’ copyright is determined by several factors, including their union’s collective agreement and the circumstances in which the work was created. For more information, see the Policy on Intellectual Property (VPRGS-9) and your collective agreement.
10. What is COPIBEC and how does it apply to me?

    Concordia University, along with other Quebec universities, is party to an Agreement with COPIBEC, a not-for-profit collective representing authors and publishers. As part of this Agreement, Concordia University pays an annual fee to COPIBEC, in return for which Concordia is authorized to prepare and provide copyrighted materials to its students, including by way of paper and digital course packs and digital Library Course Reserves. The licence specifies the limitations on what can be reproduced (such as number of pages, percentage of total work, type of work) and the payment of royalty fees. Learn more about the COPIBEC licence
11. What is the difference between copyright and a patent?

    Inventions with unique functionality can be protected by patents. Copyright is the right to reproduce or perform an original literary, artistic, dramatic, or musical work. It is worth noting that, in certain instances, software may be protected by both copyright and a patent. Learn more from the Canadian Intellectual Property Office.
12. What is the difference between citing a source and needing someone's permission to use a work?

    The proper citing of sources is essential in academic work. Citation is primarily governed by academic integrity practices, which are not the same as copyright rules. The creators' moral rights, which include their right to attribution or to remain anonymous, are part of copyright. Citation practices guide how to format the name and title, amongst many other bibliographical details, whereas the Copyright Act does not.

    For more information on citing and quoting material, consult the Academic Code of Conduct as well as A guide to academic integrity. Guides to citation styles (such as MLA, APA) are available on the Library's website.
13. How can I tell if the materials I find online are legal copies?

    Figuring out if content was legally posted online can be difficult. That said, there are a few things to keep in mind when assessing content that will help you make a more informed decision.

    Keep the following in mind:

        What website was it posted on? What is that website's reputation?
        If the content is posted on a reputable website, it is more likely to be legal content. For example, if content is posted on the website of a newspaper (e.g., The Globe and Mail) it would be more likely to be legitimate content than material posted on an individual’s blog. Be more cautious with sites that allow users to upload content, such as YouTube and other social media sites, as many users do not consider the copyright implications of posting content without permission. Content put up on the internet without permission has a higher likelihood of getting taken down. Where possible, go straight to the source. For example, when looking for a copy of a news broadcast, go straight to the news organization's page or to their account on the service you are using.
        Who posted the content, and who is the copyright owner of the content?
        Have a look at who posted the content and think about how likely they were to have permission to post the content. For example, if they are the copyright owner, they don’t need permission. If they are the creator of the work, they are more likely to have permission or be the owner. Here are a couple of examples:
            A video of a BBC news broadcast is more likely to be a legitimate copy if it was posted by the official BBC account on YouTube, than if it was posted by an anonymous individual user.
            An image posted on a photographer’s digital portfolio is more likely to be a legitimate image than a copy found on another individual’s blog.
            What attribution or permission statement is present?

        If content is posted on a website, and it is unlikely that the website owner is the copyright owner, look for an attribution statement that indicates that permission was sought to use the content. This would be something like, “Image posted with permission of Photographer X.” You may also find that content posted by the copyright owner is posted with the terms of use or a copyright statement which sets forth the scope of authorized use.

        If you've gone through these tips and are having trouble determining if the content you have was legally posted, please contact a librarian.

        "How can I tell if the materials I find online are legal copies" is adapted from the University of Waterloo Copyright Advisory Committee and is used under a CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 licence.

14. How do I know if it’s OK to use a video that I find online?

    Most online content will have terms of use of some kind. Consult the terms of use before showing the work in class, saving it, or using it in your own work. Please pay attention to technological protection measures (digital locks) or clearly visible notices prohibiting or limiting use. It is not an infringement of copyright to reproduce or perform a video that is available through the internet for educational or training purposes provided that the requirements set forth in the Copyright Act are respected (see the Exceptions section).

    Even if the content is available freely on the web, it may still be covered by copyright and you must adhere to the terms of use of a website, which can often be found in a link (frequently named “Legal” or “Terms”) on the bottom of a webpage. Of particular note, the CBC has an FAQ page for use of their digital content. For live television programs, see the section on Radio and Television Broadcasts and Educational Exceptions for Radio and Television Broadcasts.

    You should also avoid linking to, copying, or downloading videos from questionable websites that are known for pirating videos without the creator’s consent.
15. What if I want to create “non-commercial user-generated content,” like a fun video to put on YouTube or TikTok, using other people’s works?

    There are some situations where s. 29.21 of the Copyright Act, sometimes called the “mashup provision,” allows for the use of copyrighted material in user-generated content. See the User-generated content section for more information.

Instructor FAQ

1. As an instructor, do I own copyright in my teaching materials?

    You should consult your collective agreement. Furthermore, Concordia’s Policy on Intellectual Property (VPRGS-9) states that instructors retain copyright in any works they create (see sections 28-32), which includes teaching materials.

    Instructors always maintain moral rights over the course materials that they create. However, “in the case of a Work commissioned by the Employer, the Copyright shall remain with the Employer, unless the terms of the commission state that Copyright shall remain with the member” (CUFA collective agreement, 27.30). Commissioned work means that an agreement between the University and the author has been signed that states who owns the copyright over that work, among other things.
2. Why consider adding an open licence to my teaching materials?

    As a course instructor, you can consider adding open licences to your course materials to grant permission for reuse and to control how your work is shared in the educational community as well as in other contexts, while also enabling students and other instructors to readily identify how and whether they can copy and alter copied versions of the work. Learn more about Creative Commons licences, a commonly used set of open licences.
3. What can students do with my teaching materials?

    Course materials that you have created are part of your intellectual property. Inform students if you have given your instructional materials an open licence, making the name of the licence, its terms, and attribution statement clear. If not openly licensed, course materials such as lecture notes, presentation slides, syllabi, and lecture recordings are to be used only by students registered in your course, for their own private study or for other uses authorized under the Copyright Act. This means that students should not distribute or share materials, including uploading them to note-sharing websites.

    Students should obtain your permission if they want to record your lectures for their own use or contact the Access Centre for Students with Disabilities, if appropriate.
4. Can I use a work that I have published elsewhere in a course that I am teaching?

    If you have transferred your exclusive economic rights in copyright and a copyright exception does not apply, you will have to obtain the consent of your publisher to use your work in class. They might permit you free of charge or charge a fee. For this reason, it can be helpful to look closely at publishing agreements before signing. Negotiate the terms to meet your teaching needs, and keep track of your publishing contracts, which let you track the details and know whether you have signed away your copyright.

Student FAQ

1. As a student, does the professor of a course own my work created for the course?

    No. “Student Intellectual Property means any Inventions or Works conceived, developed or first reduced to practice by a Student as work product of a “for credit” course or extra-curricular activity where such activity is not governed by a Sponsorship Agreement and/or does not involve the Substantial Use of University Facilities, and where such Invention or Work was conceived, developed or first reduced to practice without the inventive contribution of a Non- Student Member” (Policy on Intellectual Property). Relevant areas of the Policy on Intellectual Property include the section on Coursework and Extra-Curricular Activities.

    In summary, as a student at Concordia, you hold intellectual property rights (including copyright) in inventions and works you create in courses or in extra-curricular activities. Exceptions include:

        entering into a Sponsorship Agreement
        with respect to inventions, making substantial use of the University’s facilities
        involving the “inventive contribution” of a faculty or staff member.

    It is worth noting that a work may be owned by multiple copyright owners in cases of co-authorship or team work.
2. What can I do with my instructors’ teaching materials?

    Course materials are their creators’ intellectual property. It is recommended that instructors inform students if they have given the materials an open licence and, if so, the terms of that licence. If not openly licensed, course materials such as lecture notes, presentation slides, syllabi, and lecture recordings are to be used only by students registered in the course for their own private study. This means that as a student, you should not distribute or share materials, including uploading them to note-sharing websites. Obtain your course instructors’ permission if you want to record lectures for your own use or contact the Access Centre for Students with Disabilities, if appropriate.

link: https://library.concordia.ca/copyright/overview.html

title: Copyright Authors' rights
description: Overview

In this guide, the term “author” includes creators of all types of works that are protected by copyright, not just texts.

In most cases, authors own copyright in their work unless they have agreed to assign it to someone else. All too often, authors sign away their copyright to publishers during the author-agreement stage of publication. In many instances, the power that authors have over their work—to distribute, create derivatives, or publicly perform it—disappears upon transfer of rights. Awareness of copyright, authors' rights, the fine print in publishing agreements, and negotiation strategies can go a long way to maximizing the value of your authorship in teaching and research practices.

How well do you know your rights as an author? Test your knowledge with The Author’s Rights Quiz created by CoalitionS.
Work created at Concordia

“The University affirms the principles of wide freedom of research and of free publication of the information generated.” (Policy on Intellectual Property)

Intellectual property created by the University's employees and students is governed by Concordia University's policies and guidelines through the following documents:

    Policy on Copyright Compliance
    Copyright Guidelines for Instructors
    Policy on Intellectual Property, which does not supersede provisions in applicable collective agreements or individual contracts of employment. Such agreements should be consulted by the applicable individuals.

Concordia Members who author a work shall generally be the owner of the copyright in the work created, except in the cases of commissioned works (see s. 30 of the Policy on Intellectual Property, which does not supersede provisions made in applicable collective agreements, including the CUFA and CUPFA collective agreements, or the Policy on Postdoctoral Fellows) or work assigned to the University further to another agreement. Note that commissioned works involve a written agreement and should be read carefully. Meanwhile, compliance with the Copyright Act and Concordia's Policy on Copyright Compliance is the responsibility of all members, including students, faculty, staff, and administration.
...
For instructors

You will want to be familiar with the ways in which copyright intersects with your research and teaching practices via the University's policy on Copyright compliance, student IP, Copyright guidelines for instructors, and the provisions of your collective agreement.
...
For students

It's important to understand that certain University policies, laws, and practices with respect to copyright apply when you're a student, both in terms of the work you create and the situations in which you can use others' work. In addition, the authors' rights discussed in this section apply to work that you create as a student and that you want to publish.
Publishing contracts: Authors, keep your rights

As part of the publishing process, journal and book publishers ask their authors to sign an agreement. By default, the agreement will typically stipulate that the author transfers economic rights to the publisher. These agreements may vary in granting the publisher certain exclusive or non-exclusive rights, such as the right to reproduce, translate derivatives, distribute, sell, license, publicly display copies, and so forth. Always read any publishing agreement closely and assess any effects that the granting of any rights to the publisher may have on you going forward.

Authors may want to gain the benefits of publishing with a journal or book publisher while retaining certain rights.
Steps to consider

    Start by increasing your awareness of your rights as an author under Canadian copyright law such as by reviewing the following sections of this Copyright Guide: Overview and Authors' rights
    Know what rights you want to keep. Examples include the right to freely share your work with students, to translate or adapt it into a different format, and to allow a version of it to be openly accessible.
    Read the fine print of the author agreement. Is it a complete assignment of copyright? Take a very close look and underline any line that states what you license, grant or assign to the publisher, which directly impacts what you are permitted to do with various versions of your work upon publication. Here are samples of publishing agreements in which relevant wording for author rights has been underlined.
        Sample Sage Publishing Agreement
        Sample Taylor and Francis Publishing Agreement
        Sample Springer Copyright Transfer Agreement
        Sample Elsevier Publishing Agreement
        Sample Wiley-Blackwell Publishing Agreement

        Sample publishing agreements from Author Rights: Your Rights, and Keeping Them by the University of Waterloo.
    The fourth step involves negotiation for a revised agreement in writing.

    The Rights Retention Strategies developed as part of PlanS supports authors in retaining their rights in advance of the accepted manuscript through the backing of participating granting agencies and institutions. Resources from PlanS include a user guide, a pre-submission letter template, and a cover letter template.

The Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition (SPARC) has developed a Canadian Author Addendum (available in English and French) to help authors secure the rights after their manuscript has been accepted for publication. Including the SPARC Canadian Author Addendum in a publication agreement assists authors in securing a more balanced agreement by retaining select rights, such as the rights to reproduce, reuse, and publicly present the articles they publish for non-commercial purposes.

    SPARC's Resources on Author Rights
    Canadian Author Addendum (available in English and French)

Some academics are openly talking about their negotiation experiences; for example see: More lessons on negotiating a contributor's contract and Negotiating academic publishing contracts.
Predatory publishing

Publishing with a predatory publisher can damage an academic's reputation with potential repercussions for tenure and promotion. Signing up for a predatory conference can cost time and money with no benefit to your academic CV. Before conferencing and publishing, make sure that you adequately inform yourself about the conference or journal.
Predatory journal publishers
Predatory conferences

Predatory conferences are often small or one-off events, typically designed solely for profit. They exploit the researcher's need to share research, network, and collaborate with peers. The details about the conference are usually vague, and the research topics are often general.

Predatory conferences may have the following characteristics:

The email invitation for a predatory conference is frequently like a predatory journal: flattering or intimidating. While some conferences may be expensive to attend, they sometimes offer low-cost options for students or society members. Legitimate academic conferences will cover costs and provide an honorarium for keynote and special guest speakers. Predatory conferences, on the other hand, invite you as a special guest to present your work without lowering the cost.
Tools

Think.Check.Attend.: a quick guide on deciding whether the conference is right for you.

Conference Evaluation Tool: created by Emme Lopez & Christine S. Gaspard to help assess if a conference is predatory or not.
Research – Publishing FAQ

Who holds the rights to my publication?

Know that the vast majority of authors' agreements will by default stipulate that the author transfers economic rights to the publisher. Depending on what the agreement says, the author may no longer be able to legally reproduce their work (in whole or in part), upload it to their personal website, or deposit it in their institutional repository. Authors can, nonetheless, negotiate with their publisher to retain certain rights (reproduction and distribution for educational purposes, open-access distribution, etc.).

How can I retain my rights in a publication?

Learn more about copyright, keeping your rights, publishing contracts, and negotiation.

Resources from PlanS, which include a user guide, pre-submission letter template, and cover letter template, are useful tools prior to submitting your research for publication. Meanwhile, signing the Canadian Author Addendum (available in English and French) template with your editor modifies your publication contract.

What is an institutional repository, a self-archiving policy, and which version of an article can I deposit in Spectrum?

Spectrum is the name of Concordia University's institutional repository. It is a space, accessible free of charge on the web, where Concordia graduate students are expected to deposit their theses, and faculty may also deposit their other research.

To deposit your research in Spectrum, find out about the self-archiving policy of any publisher with which you have published your work. Green open access, or author-driven self-archiving, is the process whereby an author submits a version of their publication in an open-access environment such as an institutional repository. Most publishers have a default self-archiving policy, which you can consult on Sherpa Romeo as well as the journal's official website. If the self-archiving policy is too restrictive, you may also consider strategies to keep your rights.

What do I need to do to comply with the Fonds de recherche du Québec (FQR) in Quebec and Canada's Tri-Agency Open Access Policy?

Access to articles resulting from research funded by the FQR and the three federal granting agencies (NSERC, SSHRC and CIHR) needs to be available free of charge. For details on the time range and licensing terms, see: Funding agencies and Open Access.

After identifying the journals that best meet your publishing goals, look over their self-archiving policy. A journal, for example, may enable the accepted manuscript version to be deposited in your institutional repository within the allotted timeframe. If your preferred journals' self-archiving policies do not align with the granting agency's Open Access policy, then consider the following:

    Allocating funding in your grant application for Author Processing Charges (APC), which are sometimes charged in order to make articles open access.
    Reviewing Article Processing Charges (APCs) discounts by consulting Institutional memberships and discounts for Concordia authors.
    Negotiating the terms of the copyright with the publisher.
    Authors' rights retention strategies can be used to support open access requirements within an acceptable timeframe. They can be used for self-archiving the accepted manuscript version in your institutional repository without an embargo period.
    If the considerations above do not work, consider an alternative journal.

Is it common for the publisher to charge a fee to distribute my article in open access?

Yes, publishers often charge Article Processing Charges (APCs) for making the published version of an article open access on their platforms. Sometimes APCs are significant. It's a way for publishers to recoup some of the revenue that they lose when they publish in open access. Please note that you can allocate funding in your grant application for APCs, and Concordia offers APC discounts for Concordia researchers in select journals.

Note that if APCs seem exaggerated, be careful: the publisher may be a predatory publisher. For more information on how to identify and avoid them, see the section on predatory publishing on this website. You may also be interested to know that diamond open-access journals are fully OA journals free of charge for both authors and readers.

What is a predatory publisher and how do I avoid them?

Predatory publishers only aim to make profit at the expense of authors. They often charge exorbitant fees for the publication of articles without following a rigorous process, lack serious and integrated evaluation of articles by peers, have no reporting in the main databases of the field, have no indexing of the articles in scholarly databases, etc. Review checklists on how to spot predatory publishers. For more information on how to identify and avoid them, see the section on predatory publishing on this website. If you still feel uncertain after reviewing the checklists, contact your subject librarian.

What can I do if I have published an article with a predatory publisher?

You can ask for the article to be removed, but be aware that the publisher may charge a fee.

See also: Spectrum FAQ

"Research - Publishing FAQ" contains excerpts adapted and translated from Foire aux questions: communications savantes by the Bureau du droit d'auteur, Université Laval, © Université Laval, used with permission.


link: https://library.concordia.ca/copyright/authors.html

title: Copyright open use
description: Works accessible through open use
Public domain
Out of copyright

Works that are not under copyright and which are part of the “public domain” can be freely copied, distributed, adapted and performed without permission from the author or the payment of royalties.

Public domain includes certain things not covered by copyright in the first place—titles, names, slogans, word combinations, ideas, facts—as well as works with expired copyright. It is worth noting, however, that some things, which under copyright would be under the public domain, could nonetheless be covered under other intellectual property rights, such as trademark protections.
Areas of nuance

The copyright of works by famous creators such as Shakespeare, Kant, Da Vinci and Mozart has long expired. However, a published compendium of Shakespeare may include additional contributions in the form of introductory essays and detailed commentary, such as in the footnotes. While the newer additions generate copyright, the public domain works remain out of copyright.

For works with expired copyright, the rule of territoriality applies to the public domain. This means that a work may fall into the public domain in Canada but not in the United States, for example. Where a work is used and distributed is generally the determining factor. In Canada, copyright generally expires 70 years after the death of the author, but there are important exceptions to this principle.

Use the Canadian Copyright Term and Public Domain Flowchart from the University of Alberta to determine whether a work is in the public domain.
Creative Commons

Some other works are licensed through open licences, such as Creative Commons licences, that allow certain uses by granting permission without payment of royalties, sometimes with conditions applicable.

Creative Commons (CC) defines itself as “a nonprofit organization that helps overcome legal obstacles to the sharing of knowledge and creativity to address the world’s pressing challenges.” CC licences are standard, easy-to-use and understand copyright licences that anybody can apply to work in which they own the copyright to allow others to share, remix, or use their work without requiring the user to contact them (the copyright holder) to ask for permission. The owner may choose which of the permissions set forth below they would like to grant to users.
Potential permissions included as part of CC licences
CC icon 	Abbreviation 	Name 	Licence condition
Black circle with stick-figure person in middle 	BY 	Attribution 	Credit must be given to the creator
Black circle with a backward c-shaped arrow in middle 	SA 	ShareAlike 	Adaptations must be shared under the same terms
Black circle with a slash through a dollar sign in middle 	NC 	NonCommercial 	Only noncommercial uses of the work are permitted
Black circle with 2 parallel lines (equal sign) in the middle 	ND 	NoDerivatives 	No derivatives or adaptations of the work are permitted
Permissions that are not CC licences
Black circle with a zero inside with public domain written beside it

CC0 is not technically a licence. The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication enables copyright holders to place their work in the public domain.
Black circle with letter C crossed out with public domain written beside it

Public Domain Mark is not a licence. It enables users to indicate where they know works to be free of copyright restriction and thereby in the public domain.
Six Creative Commons licences
Icon(s) 	Name 	Copy & publish 	Attribution required 	Commercial use 	Modify & adapt 	Change licence
Black circle with stick-figure person in middle 	CC BY 	yes 	yes 	yes 	yes 	yes
Black circle with stick-figure person in middle Black circle with a backward c-shaped arrow in middle 	CC BY-SA 	yes 	yes 	yes 	yes 	no
Black circle with stick-figure person in middle Black circle with 2 parallel lines (equal sign) in the middle 	CC BY-ND 	yes 	yes 	yes 	no 	yes
Black circle with stick-figure person in middle Black circle with a slash through a dollar sign in middle 	CC BY-NC 	yes 	yes 	no 	yes 	yes
Black circle with stick-figure person in middle Black circle with a slash through a dollar sign in middle Black circle with a backward c-shaped arrow in middle 	CC BY-NC-SA 	yes 	yes 	no 	yes 	no
Black circle with stick-figure person in middle Black circle with a slash through a dollar sign in middle Black circle with 2 parallel lines (equal sign) in the middle 	CC BY-NC-ND 	yes 	yes 	no 	no 	yes

"Six Creative Commons licences" is adapted from Creative Commons Licenses by Ricardo56, and is used under a CC BY-SA 2.0 licence
Considerations when deciding which licence to use

Start by noting the intended purpose of your work.

Once you have a sense of your intended purpose, find out more about the specific licences. Creative Commons provides further detail about each of their licences. See About CC licenses.

Creative Commons also provides a Licence Chooser Tool.

Keep in mind that not all CC licences are suited to Open Educational Resources. Licences that do not permit derivatives (where ND is in the licence) will not be considered Open Educational Resources (see CC Licences and OER).
Provide attribution information for works with Creative Commons licences

You should indicate on your work how you would like your work to be attributed. Attribution statements should include:

    Title
    Author
    Source: Include the source link
    Licence: Name the licence and link to its terms

Example: Title by Author. Source. CC BY 4.0
You will need to know how to mark your work with a CC licence

Include an attribution statement within the document itself, which will help downstream users know what they are permitted to do with a work that has been created or adapted. Attribution statements also help maintain appropriate credit to the work, thereby supporting best practices for copying, sharing and otherwise using a work.
Including attributions for various types of media

Creative Commons (CC) provides a quick and easy overview on including attributions for websites, blogs, offline documents, images, presentations, video, audio, datasets, etc. For more information, see Marking your work with a CC license.

Someone who creates a collection generally gains copyright over the collection but not the copyrighted works within.

A collection can be licensed as permitting commercial use (BY, BY-SA, BY-ND licences) of the collection. For a commercial collection, it is not recommended to include works with non-commercial licences within it. If someone wanted to use the collection commercially, they would have to contact the rights holders of works where a NC licence was chosen and ask permission.

A collection can be licenced as not permitting commercial use of the collection (CC licences with an NC).
Where to find public domain and Creative Commons works?

    Find open educational resources, multimedia, images, video and sound
    Find Open Access scholarship

link: https://library.concordia.ca/copyright/open-use.html

title: Copyright by media type
description: By media type

Copyright covers a range of media including text, video, images, and more. Consider the types of media that you are intending to use as a student, as an instructor, as an author, or working on a research publication. Learn to evaluate if an exception to the standard copyright rules exists, if fair dealing applies to your use or if you need to ask permission to proceed with your intended use. Familiarize yourself with licences available to you in the university setting and Creative Commons licences.
Media types: What is covered under copyright?
...
Educational and examination exceptions for media
...
Using media in student work
...
Research publications
Do's and don'ts

Do: appropriately provide attribution with the title and creator (if known) and the web source for the work (if available online). If you are using a work with a Creative Commons licence, also include the name of the licence and link to the licence information.

Do: check the terms of use for content you've found online.

Do: acquire permission in writing if you need to get permission to use a work.

Don't: link to, copy, or download works from questionable websites that are known for pirating videos, images, texts, and other copyright-protected works.

Don't: break digital locks. Technological protection measures and digital rights management locks may not be circumvented to copy or display the work.
Finding Creative Commons and public domain media

The Open Educational Resources guide has several sites to help you find Creative Commons and public domain images, video, and more.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/copyright/media.html

title: Copyright for students
description: For students
All students
Academic integrity in assignments

An important part of engaging in research and scholarship is giving other authors proper attribution and recognition for their ideas, work, words, and contributions.

Any assignment, including a thesis, must be an original work and presented in your own words. Naturally, you will cite other works, and quote and paraphrase from them. You must do so in a consistent and transparent manner, using a citation or style guide.

Whenever you use someone else's work, cite it according to the conventions or style guide of your discipline. The Library maintains information on citation guides, and offers workshops on best practices and use of reference management tools.

Keep track of the sources you use and make proper citation a practice as you conduct your literature review, research, and drafting. Citation or style guides will show how to cite a variety of scholarly sources, including journal articles, books, conference proceedings, news sources, archival documents, films, audio recordings, and more.

For more information on academic integrity, citation, and how to avoid plagiarism, consult the following Concordia resources:

    What is plagiarism?
    Citation and style guides
    Concordia's Academic Code of Conduct

Student work

As a student at Concordia, you own the copyright in your own work!

Concordia's Policy on Intellectual Property (VPRGS-9) states that students own intellectual property rights (including copyright) in their own work created in courses or in extra-curricular activities. As a student, you are never obligated to participate in projects or activities that require you to assign your intellectual property rights to someone else. However, you can decide to assign your rights if you wish (see section 8 of the Policy).

You should also be aware of some exceptions in the Policy where you would not be the copyright owner. Please review the Policy for more information.
Graduate students
Theses & dissertations: Overview

If you are a graduate student and are unsure which citation style to use, consult your supervisor early in your thesis writing process. The Thesis Preparation and Thesis Examination Regulations guide prepared by the Thesis Office lists some commonly used citation manuals.

Before copying, translating, adapting, distributing, or performing a copyrighted work in your thesis, you need to consider whether:

    You are using an insubstantial or substantial part of the work
    Your use falls under fair dealing
    You have received permission (ideally in writing) from the copyright holder or they have issued a licence which allows you to use their work
    You are using a work in the public domain
    Your use is allowed under an open access or Creative Commons licence

Although proper citation provides acknowledgment for the sources you use, it is insufficient to meet applicable obligations pursuant to copyright law.

In general, employing a substantial part or all of a copyrighted work requires your use of a work to:

    Qualify for fair dealing, in which case you do not have to seek permission to use the copyrighted work or
    Seek and obtain permission for your intended use or
    Refrain from copying and distributing the work, which means that you can provide your own description of the work instead.

Different disciplines have their own accepted practices. Academic integrity and your discipline's authorship practices may provide more stringent constraints to using copyright-protected works than the Copyright Act. It is highly recommended that you consider such norms and issues in consultation with your thesis supervisor as early as possible while you write your thesis.

Please contact your subject librarian if you have further questions or comments.
How to seek permission to include copyright works in your thesis
When to seek permission

After reading about copyright and consulting with one or more members of your thesis committee, you should be able to evaluate whether your thesis includes elements (text, graphs, tables, images, etc.) that are substantial and do not constitute fair dealing. If no exceptions apply, you must seek permission to reproduce the work(s).

Obtaining an official letter or signed form from the copyright holder can take time. Given that refusal is a possibility, seek permission early in the thesis process, especially if you need to contact multiple persons.
Publisher copyright policies

The first step is to determine who holds the copyright for the materials you are using. In most cases, the publisher will hold the copyright for materials published as part of journals or books. The publisher's website may provide information on copyright policies and people to contact. Journal websites may provide:

    Advance permission for specific uses, including non-commercial reproduction and use in theses
    Information on how to obtain permission and whom to contact
    Types of uses that are specifically prohibited
    Information on how to reuse your own articles for which the publisher holds the copyright

Contacting the copyright holder

If you determine that you need to ask permission, the following are important elements to include in your correspondence:

    Clarification that you are a graduate student at Concordia University and that the purpose of the request is to ask permission to include copyrighted material in your thesis.
    A detailed citation of the document (or part thereof) that you are using in your thesis. Include page numbers, table or chart number, or any other relevant information.
    Notification that the thesis will be available online through Spectrum, Concordia University's institutional repository, the Library and Archive Canada's website and other websites. Include a copy of these licence agreements or a link to their text: Spectrum Concordia University Research Repository's Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence.
    Ask the rights holder to respond to your request by a given date. You may also want to offer to send the copyright holder a copy of your thesis.

Permission form

To facilitate the process of asking permission to use copyrighted work, you may want to use this suggested request form: Permission to use copyrighted material in a thesis.

If you do not use the form, try to obtain an official signed letter, such as on letterhead, as signed documents may offer more legal protection than emails. Make sure that the copyright holder specifically agrees with the Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence.
Proof of permission

Keep all correspondence (emails, letters, forms) exchanged with copyright holders. Do not include these documents in your thesis but keep them in your files as they constitute proof that you have obtained permission to use the copyrighted materials.

In your thesis, each time you use material for which you have obtained reproduction rights, you should include a statement such as “reproduced with permission from XYZ.”
Permission denied

In the unusual case where the copyright holder denies permission to use the material, requests a charge for granting this right, or fails to respond to your request, the material must be removed from the thesis. This should only be done as a last resort when the reproduction is not considered fair dealing and you have made a reasonable effort to obtain permission from the rights holder.

If you need to remove copyrighted material from your thesis, leave a space where the original document was located and, in its place, include:

    This statement: “This [text, photo, graph, image, etc.] was removed because of copyright restrictions.”
    A description of the material (in case of an image, a table or a graph) or a summary of its content (in the case of an article or book). Try to describe it as precisely as possible, without quoting it directly, so that readers will be able to understand references to it in your thesis.
    A precise citation for the source of the material, referring to a physical copy if possible. If there is an online copy of the document, provide its URL.

Example:

This table (fig. 31) was removed because of copyright restrictions.

It depicts global renewable energy trends over the past decade. Each row represents a year from 2013-2023. The values are shown in GW for the total renewable energy capacity, solar energy capacity, wind energy capacity, hydroelectric power capacity, and other renewables.

Source: “Figure 3,” Smith, J. (2023). Renewable energy trends: A 2023 overview. Green Worlds Institute, 45.
Including your own previously published work in your thesis

First, learn more about your rights as an author.

As graduate students, you hold copyright in your thesis. When submitting the thesis, you retain your rights and sign the Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence to allow the thesis to be made available for others to read.

If you have published or are publishing a portion of your work (i.e., articles, poems, plays, music), and you wish also to include a substantial portion from that work in your thesis, please consider the copyright implications.

As early as possible in the publication process, inform the editor or publisher that you need to reproduce material from your work in your thesis. If you have co-authored the work, you should also inform the co-author(s) that you intend to use the results of your work in your thesis.

Authors usually sign a copyright transfer agreement when they publish. Quite often, this agreement transfers the copyright from the author(s) (i.e., you) to the publisher. If you want to use the content of the article in your thesis, you will need to maintain the right to re-use your own work. When signing an agreement with the publisher, read the terms of the publication agreement very carefully. Look for wording in the publishing agreement about the right to reproduce content from the article in a thesis that will be freely available on the web in an institutional repository (i.e., Spectrum). If you do not see such wording, ask to have it added.

Consider strategies for keeping your author rights.

Keep your publishing agreement/waiver and all correspondence with the publisher on file as they are proof that you have permission to use the material in your thesis.

Finally, familiarize yourself with the section on the Manuscript-Based Thesis in the Thesis Preparation and Thesis Examination Regulations guide (pp. 9–11).
Agreeing to the Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence

As a graduate student at Concordia, you hold the copyright of your thesis for the entire term of copyright protection. As a condition of receiving your degree, you are asked to grant Concordia University permission to make the work openly available. At Concordia, your thesis is submitted through Spectrum, the University's institutional repository. Upon deposit, you agree to Spectrum Concordia University Research Repository's Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence.
The Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence

The Spectrum Concordia University Research Repository's Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence has been revised (November 5, 2022) to include Library and Archives Canada's Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence, formerly a separate document requiring signatures.

The Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence stipulates that you own the copyright in your thesis, but that Concordia University and Library and Archives Canada will:

    ... archive, preserve on any medium and format, perform, produce, reproduce, translate theses and dissertations in any format, including but not limited to electronic, digital or paper format, and to make available in print or communicate online by telecommunication to the public, loan, distribute for non-commercial purposes, for research and private study.

You can enter into other agreements, such as one for publishing your thesis, so long as subsequent licence agreements respect that Concordia University and Library and Archives Canada have a non-exclusive right to make your thesis available. For example, you cannot assign an exclusive licence for your thesis to a publisher as part of a publishing contract, as you have already been granted a non-exclusive licence. Generally, you should inform any publisher interested in your thesis that it will be available on the internet and in other databases by Concordia University and Library and Archives Canada.

While depositing your thesis is a requirement, you can place an embargo on your thesis for up to two years from your final submission date. Under exceptional circumstances and with written justification to the Thesis Office, the embargo may be renewed. See “deferment” in the Student Guide to Thesis Preparation. Once embargoed and deposited, the abstract and basic bibliographical details will still appear to the public.
IP policy background for the Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence

The Thesis Non-Exclusive Licence originates from the University's Policy on Intellectual Property, which is also reflected in the University's Graduate Calendar and the Thesis Regulations from the Thesis Office.

Paragraph 34 in the Policy on Intellectual Property (VPRGS-9) states:

    34. Upon submission of a thesis by a graduate student, the graduate student shall be deemed to have granted the University a non-exclusive, royalty free licence to reproduce, archive, preserve, conserve, communicate to the public by telecommunication or on the internet, loan, distribute the thesis worldwide for non-commercial purposes, in any format including electronic. In the event of a deferment of a thesis for distribution or publication, it is understood that the University's licence to communicate, loan and/or distribute shall only take effect as of the expiry of the agreed upon deferment period.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/copyright/students.html

title: Copyright for Instructors
description: For instructors
Overview

Instructors at Concordia University—including professors, librarians, teaching assistants, and instructional designers and consultants—should be aware of how to evaluate the pedagogical use of copyright-protected materials pursuant to relevant exceptions, policies, licences and guidelines.
...
When using coursepacks, ePacks, Moodle, Course Reserves

Learn more about COPIBEC

Consult the course materials chart

Find out about openly licensed works

Consider Open Educational Resources (OER)

On Moodle it is preferable to provide permanent links to copyrighted materials
...
In the physical and virtual classroom

Learn more about the scope of fair dealing and educational exceptions

Consult the course materials chart

Find out about openly licensed works

Consider OER
...
Before placing on the open web

Find out about openly licensed works

Consider OER

Fair dealing and educational exceptions might not apply outside of the protected environment of Moodle

In order to confirm permissions, learn about the terms of use for the work
...
While considering an Open Educational Resource (OER)

Learn about Creative Commons licenses for collections and remixes

Learn about the scope and limitations of fair dealing

Learn more about support for OER at Concordia
Four options when teaching

You are an instructor with a copyright-protected item that you would like to use. Here are four options to consider when providing the materials for teaching.
1. COPIBEC licence
2. Licensed databases
3. Education and examination exceptions
4. Fair dealing
Concordia's guiding documents

    Copyright Guidelines for Instructors (Prepared in accordance with Policy SG-2, updated December 2021)
    Policy on Copyright Compliance (Concordia Policy SG-2, 2010)
    The Provost's COBIPEC Memo (Use of copyrighted material for courses, June 2023) and its Appendix (June 2023)

Attribution

In all cases where copyrighted materials are used for the purpose of education, appropriate attribution should be provided that includes the title and creator (as the case may be, the author, performer, maker or broadcaster), if known, and the source for the work. In addition to creator and title details, if you are using a work with a Creative Commons licence, provide attribution information by including the name of the licence, the link to the licence information, and the link to the source.
Course materials

The chart below provides an overview of various ways that course readings can be provided to students with copyright compliance. See more information about different types of materials in Information by type.
Course materials chart
Guidelines based on where the material is from

Material is from...

Public domain

Description

Works that are not under copyright are generally part of the "public domain." Work in the public domain can normally be freely copied, distributed, adapted, and performed without permission from the author or the payment of royalties.

Just because work is available on the internet does not mean that it is in public domain. Works generally enter public domain either because the duration of copyright over the work has expired or because the copyright owner expressly has placed the work in public domain. If in doubt, do not presume that a work is in public domain.

How to provide

You may copy, upload, or otherwise reproduce the material in your course.

Material is from...

Open Educational Resource (OER)

Description

Teaching and learning materials in any medium that explicitly permit no-cost access, use, adaptation, and redistribution by others for educational purposes.

How to provide

You may copy, upload, or otherwise reproduce the material in your course in accordance with the terms of the material's open licence.

Material is from...

Work available openly on the internet

Description

Web pages or other documents that are publicly available on the internet and are not on a password-protected site or only accessible from select locations (e.g., only accessible in the Library or on-campus).

How to provide

Verify and think twice before reproducing and downloading content in a manner which is not explicitly permitted by the material's terms of use. It is preferable to provide your students with a link to the material so long as it is not to a site known for piracy or otherwise contravening copyright law or other laws.

Material is from...

Journal article, book, report, etc.

Description

Works that are protected by copyright (unless in the public domain or openly licensed).

How to provide

Follow the terms of the COPIBEC licence.

Provide students with a link to the material when possible or submit a request to the Library's Course Reserves in order to have a print item placed on reserve, a portion of a work digitized, or an online material linked from Course Reserves.

If you are assigning an entire ebook or other resource for which Concordia has purchased a licence, you may provide students with a link to the material or submit a request to have the item listed in Course Reserves.

Material is from...

Unpublished work

Description

Works could include your own unpublished course notes, presentations, article manuscripts, etc.

How to provide

Normally, for works that you have authored and have not assigned your copyright to a third party, you are the copyright holder and may use them however you wish.

If you are not the author, permission must be obtained for use, unless an exception applies (education, examination, fair dealing).

Material is from...

Out of print work

Description

Material that is no longer being printed or published digitally but is still covered by copyright.

How to provide

Submit a request to Course Reserves if the item is in the Library's collection.

Guidelines based on where the material is from is adapted from Copyright Flowchart for Course Materials by the University of Victoria Libraries CC BY 4.0.
Open Education Resources (OER)

The high cost of textbooks and other course readings results in many students not purchasing assigned course materials. Students are faced with growing financial barriers to accessing course materials (CARL, 2020). Meanwhile, instructors are encouraged to use the Library's Course Reserves service and consider OER to make materials available to students for free. This can encourage less infringement of copyright on shadow sites and torrenting applications.

OER are considered open because they are either in the public domain or have been released under an open licence that permits no-cost access, use, adaptation and redistribution by others with no or limited restrictions. These open and reusable resources may include textbooks, curricula, syllabi, lecture notes, question banks, audio-video material, assignments, rubrics, etc.

Learn more about OER and how to find, evaluate, adopt, customize, and create them at Concordia University.

Learn more about public domain and open licences, including Creative Commons.

Reference: CARL. (2020). Equitable, affordable access to digital course materials for university students: Issues and solutions.
Using student work protected by copyright

Concordia's Policy on Intellectual Property (VPRGS-9) states that, except for certain exceptional cases, students own intellectual property rights (including copyright) in their own work created in courses or in extra-curricular activities.

Instructors cannot publish or distribute students' original course work without their permission.

Per VPRGS-9, “Student Intellectual Property means any Inventions or Works conceived, developed or first reduced to practice by a Student as work product of a 'for credit' course or extra-curricular activity where such activity is not governed by a Sponsorship Agreement and/or does not involve the Substantial Use of University Facilities, and where such Invention or Work was conceived, developed or first reduced to practice without the inventive contribution of a Non-Student Member” (Definitions section).

Moreover, “students are never obligated to participate in projects or activities that require them to assign their intellectual property rights to someone else” (VPRGS-9, s. 6). However, they can decide to assign their rights if they wish.

The policy also details the requirements for situations when a sponsor (e.g., a third party outside the university) wishes to provide support for a student project: “When a sponsor wishes to use or otherwise rely on Student Intellectual Property, the sponsor is required to sign the Student Research Sponsorship Acknowledgement appended hereto as Annex A in which the sponsor:

    acknowledges that the Student Intellectual Property and any related results are not warranted by the University;
    indemnifies the University against the use of the Student Intellectual Property and related results; and
    acknowledges the Student Intellectual Property and related results are not the work of the University” (section 5).

link: https://library.concordia.ca/copyright/instructors.html

title: Technology Sandbox
description: Opened in 2017 as part of the Webster Library Transformation, the Technology Sandbox is a community space where everyone can learn by doing, by making, by playing, and by sharing knowledge with each other 

Policy

The Library Code of Conduct applies to the use of the Technology Sandbox, including its section on food and beverages; that is no food is allowed in the Technology Sandbox, with the exception of beverages in spill-proof containers.
Access to equipment

All equipment in our space exists on an experimental, as-is basis. We are here to try new things and sometimes they will break, be in-use or not work as expected!
Lending

All equipment on loan is subject to the late fees/replacement fees as specified in the Library Loans Policy. If in doubt, please ask when borrowing the equipment.
Storage

The Technology Sandbox provides no storage for individual projects. When you are done working in the space, please bring your personal materials with you. Projects left in the Technology Sandbox unattended will be recycled as parts for other Sandbox projects.
Computer usage

Please refrain from using the Technology Sandbox’s workstations for activities that could be accomplished on other library computers, e.g. web browsing.

Everything that is used in the space should be returned to its proper place. You are responsible for leaving your workspace as clean or cleaner than you found it.
Safety

Ask for assistance on any tool you are not familiar with. For any powered tool (including the digital die cutter and 3D printer) you have not used in the Sandbox before please (even if you have extensive 3D printing experience) consult with the staff before using. In order to keep things working smoothly we have certain workflows that must be respected.
Please dress appropriately for the equipment you are using

Use safety glasses if cutting wires, soldering or using power tools and tie back long hair for work with any power tools. Please consider the safety of your neighbour. If you see someone using the equipment in an unsafe manner, please advise them or a staff member immediately.


link: https://library.concordia.ca/technology/sandbox/policy.php

title: 3D Printer Guide at the Technology Sandbox
description: Who can use the Library's 3D printers?

The Technology Sandbox has six 3D printers that are available for all Concordia students and staff. Access to the 3D printers is free and available during the Sandbox’s opening hours.
Rules & guidelines

    No previous printing experience required. No certification is needed
    If it is your first time using our 3D printers, please ask for assistance. We always have staff available. Each printer has a different interface and different printing parameters.
    One printer per project at a time. One printer per person.
    We welcome all types of projects; they don't have to be course-related.
    If you’re in a class and have access to a lab with a 3D printer, we encourage you to use your course-specific tools.
    We use the file format .stl. You need to slice the file in the Sandbox on our computers.
    Printing must finish during open hours. Printers turn off when we close. The slicing software will give you an estimate of the total printing time.

small red corner counter holding 3d printers
Frequently asked questions (FAQ)

Q: What kind of 3D printers do you have?

A: We have 3 Prusa (mark 2 and 3) and 3 PrintrBot Simple Metal. Two of them have been upgraded to have heated beds.

Q: I have no experience in 3d modeling. How do I get started?

A: You can find various models for 3D printing at www.thingiverse.com and www.tinkercad.com

Q: What materials do you use for printing?

A: We only print PLA plastic (provided).

Q: What is the process for 3D printing?

A: It varies, depending on the printer and the project, but in general 3D printing follows these steps:

    Find the .stl file you want to print and export it.
    Slice it for the corresponding printer.
    Transfer it to the printer using a USB key or a SD card.
    Change the filament if you want a specific color.
    Start the print and watch the two first layers.
    Leave and come back to pick up your print.

Q: What size of objects can I print?

A: Our larger printer has a maximum capacity of twenty cubic centimeters. Many prints approaching this size may not finish in the time we are open – please check the estimate generated by the slicing software.

Q: How can I choose the color of what I print?

A: The color is determined by the type of plastic you use. You will have a variety of colors to choose from, but the print can only be of one color. You can modify the finished print by sanding, painting or varnishing to create a variety of effects.

Q: What is an .stl file? How do I slice it? What does it mean?

A: You can always ask those questions to our support staff. There is always someone available to help. Please, feel free seek assistance!
link: https://library.concordia.ca/technology/sandbox/3d-printing-guide.php

title: Remote Access to Technology Sandbox Computers
description: 

If your computer isn’t cutting edge, or you don’t have the hard-drive space to install something new and big like a game engine, machine-learning libraries or rendering software, good news! All you need is some software you probably already have installed, and you can access the sandbox computers to do whatever you need!

We’ve installed the latest version of the Unity game engine, and will soon have the latest version of the Unreal engine and Godot engines installed as well. We also have a long list of python libraries, commonly used for machine learning (if you have a specific library you’d like installed, contact the sandbox technician and your request will be evaluated). Lastly, on computer lib-w211-06, we have a copy of Agisoft Metashapes installed, which is top notch photo-grametry software. Expect a post on using this software soon!

So, here are the instructions for logging into the Sandbox Computers!

Step 1! If you haven’t already, you need to install the Fortinet client from myconcordia.ca, install it, and use it to connect to the Concordia VPN. For more information and detailed instructions for how to do this, go here!

Step 2! Book a computer through libcal. Which is to say, go here, and reserve a machine for when you want to use it. Note! The length of your booking is limited, and the number of bookings you can have per week is only 3: plan accordingly!

Step 3! Connect to the VPN, then use “Remote Desktop Protocol” to connect to which-ever computer you booked. Use the instructions found here! In the step here called “Get your computer name”, instead use the name of the computer you booked, which will be one of these three:
lib-w211-02.concordia.ca
lib-w211-03.concordia.ca
lib-w211-06.concordia.ca

If you have any issues, please report the problems the technology sandbox technician.

link: https://labs.library.concordia.ca/blog/access-the-sandbox-remotely/

title: Borrowing Technology Sandbox items FAQ
description: Technology Sandbox items available for loan: Records in Sofia Discovery tool.
Back to top
When, where and how can I borrow Technology Sandbox items?

Technology Sandbox items are available during service hours.
Steps to borrowing an item (except Video games - see below):

If you need more information about the Technology Sandbox items and what they do, you may want to start off by visiting the Technology Sandbox and speak to the person on duty.
Webster Library

    Once you know what you want, visit the Webster Library Loans & Returns Desk and ask to borrow the card for the item you are interested in. Each Technology Sandbox item will have its own card. Once checked out, the due date for the item will appear in your Sofia account. More information about loan periods.
    Take the card you borrowed from the Webster Library Loans & Returns Desk to the Technology Sandbox and exchange it for the actual item.

Vanier Library

    Once you know what you want, visit the Vanier Library Circulation Desk and ask to borrow the item you are interested in. Once checked out, the due date for the item will appear in your Sofia account. More information about loan periods.


Steps to returning an item (except Video games - see below):

NOTE: All items can be borrowed again, should no one else be waiting to borrow the item, except for the following: gaming laptops, Playstation VR and DSLR cameras; to borrow these items an additional time you will need to wait until the next day, during the Technology Sandbox or Vanier Library Circulation Desk opening hours.
Webster Library

    Return all Technology Sandbox items to the Technology Sandbox.
    Once staff verify that an item is complete and in operating condition, they will give you the associated card, with some exceptions.
    The card must be returned to the Webster Library Loans & Returns Desk to complete the return of the loan.

Webster Library Loans & Returns Desk will not handle technology.
Items must be returned to the Technology Sandbox during their service hours.

Vanier Library

    Return all Technology Sandbox items to Vanier Library Circulation Desk during service hours.
    Staff will verify that the item is complete and in operating condition.


Steps to borrowing a Video game:

    You can search for Video games in the Sofia Discovery tool.
    Video games are held behind the Webster Library Loans & Returns Desk. Provide the call number for the video game you want to check-out so the item can be retrieved for you.
    The video game will be checked-out to you at the Desk.
    You can return games to the Loans Desk during opening hours or at one of the book drops.

Back to top
Who can borrow?

Technology Sandbox items are available for loan by current Concordia University students, undergraduate and graduate, faculty and staff.
Back to top
Who is responsible for damage or theft?

The person who checked out a Technology Sandbox item is responsible for returning it in good condition. In case of damage, theft or loss, the user will be charged the cost of repair or replacement. Do not under any circumstances leave the item unattended.

If a Technology Sandbox item or its peripherals are not returned, damaged, or if parts are missing, sanctions will be applied in accordance with the Library's Policy on Overdue and Lost Material:

    your library borrowing privileges will be suspended
    you will be charged for the full replacement cost of the item
    you will be subject to the Concordia University policy on payment of tuition and other fees.

Back to top
How do I get help?

Staff in the Technology Sandbox will be able to answer questions regarding the use of items. Visit the Technology Sandbox during service hours.

link: https://library.concordia.ca/technology/sandbox/borrow.php

title: How to cite
description: Zotero

Zotero is a desktop application that allows you to manage and organize your bibliographic references while simplifying the process of preparing a bibliography.

Formatting citations in databases

Some database providers, such as EBSCO and ProQuest, allow you to format references using a particular style (ex. APA, Chicago, MLA, etc.), and email or print these formatted references.

Note: Always review the citations formatted by the database. Compare results with style guidelines listed on this guide for the exact formatting and punctuation.

APA style

    APA citation style - 7th edition - guidelines and examples prepared by Concordia Library
    Citing Business Databases in APA Format - guidelines and examples prepared by Concordia Library
    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users APA style guide to electronic references (access restricted to Concordia users)
    APA Style Website from the APA (American Psychological Association)
    APA Formatting and Style Guide (Purdue University Online Writing Lab)
    APA Style (Murdoch University)
    How to set up a running head APA style in MS Word - prepared by Concordia Library
    Way of APA workshop slides


MLA style

    MLA style guide - guidelines and examples prepared by Concordia Library
    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users MLA Handbook, 9th edition (full text online version) (access restricted to Concordia users)
    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users MLA Style 101 videos (MLA Handbook Plus) (access restricted to Concordia users)
    MLA Formatting and Style Guide - MLA General Format (Purdue University Online Writing Lab)
    MLA Citation Style (Long Island University)


Turabian style

"Turabian style" refers to the formatting guidelines in A Manual for Writers of Term Papers, Theses, and Dissertations by Kate Turabian (available in print at Concordia Library). The manual is a basic introduction to formatting and the Chicago citation style for social sciences term papers.

Two forms of citation are permitted by Turabian: 1) footnotes with a bibliography, or 2) parenthetical references with a reference list at the end of the paper, known as author-date.

    Turabian citation quick guide: notes and bibliography and author-date
    Turabian student paper formatting examples


Chicago style

    Chicago style guide - guidelines and examples prepared by Concordia Library
    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users Chicago Manual of Style (full text online version) (access restricted to Concordia users)
    Chicago-Style Citation Quick Guide (Chicago Manual of Style)
    Chicago Manual of Style (Purdue University Online Writing Lab)
    Chicago - Referencing Guide (Murdoch University)

Style Chicago francisé

    Style Chicago (17 e édition) francisé – Guide de l’Université de Montréal
        Style Chicago (17 e édition) francisé pour Zotero (Université de Montréal)
    Style Chicago (17 e édition) francisé – Guide de l’Université d’Ottawa


Society of Biblical Literature (SBL)

    SBL style guide - guidelines and examples prepared by Concordia Library
    The SBL handbook of style: for ancient Near Eastern, Biblical, and early Christian studies (print format)
    Access is Restricted to Concordia Users The SBL handbook of style: for biblical studies and related disciplines (full text online version) (access restricted to Concordia users)
    Student Supplement for The SBL Handbook of Style
    Barton College guides

Biblical fonts

The Society of Biblical Literature has developed fonts for digital and print use, inlcuding SBL BibLit, which combines Greek, Hebrew, and Latin characters, including transliteration diacritics, SBL Greek, a Greek-specific font, and SBL Hebrew, a Hebrew-specific font.

Download SBL fonts.

IEEE style

    IEEE style guide - guidelines and examples prepared by Concordia Library
    IEEE Editorial Style Manual (IEEE Author Center).
    IEEE Professional Communication Society (Guidelines for Preparing References).

Citing legal and government publications

    Government information & legal citation guides


Other citation guides

    American Anthropological Association Publishing Style Guide
    American Chemical Society (ACS) Style Guide
    American Medical Association (AMA) citation style
    American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) style guide
    American Sociological Association's Quick Tips for ASA Style
    Canadian Open Access Legal Citation Guide
    Citation guides by subject and style (McGill University)
    Comment présenter sa bibliographie (Université du Québec à Montréal)
    Documenting Sources in the Disciplines (Purdue University Online Writing Lab)
    How to Cite Statistics Canada Products


Online citation tools

    CitationGenerator
    ZoteroBib
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/

title: APA citation style - 7th edition
description:  Introduction

This guide provides a basic introduction to the APA citation style. It is based on the 7th edition of the Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association published in 2020 (2019). Copies of the manual are available at the Vanier Library's Reference desk and Webster Library's Ask Us! desk, in both Libraries' reference collections and on 3-hour reserve. The call number for the manual is BF 76.7 P83 2020.

The Publication Manual is generally used for academic writing in the social sciences. The manual itself covers many aspects of research writing including selecting a topic, evaluating sources, taking notes, plagiarism, the mechanics of writing, the format of the research paper as well as the way to cite sources.

This guide provides basic explanations and examples for the most common types of citations used by students. For additional information and examples, refer to the Publication Manual.
Back to top
In-text citations - overview

When using your own words to refer indirectly to another author's work, you must identify the original source. A complete reference must appear in the Reference List at the end of your paper.

Chapter 8 of the Publication Manual provides further explanations and examples of in-text citations.
Back to top
Authors
One author

    In most cases, providing the author's last name and the publication year are sufficient:

        Smith (1997) compared reaction times...

        Within a paragraph, you need not include the year in subsequent references.

        Smith (1997) compared reaction times. Smith also found that... 

Two authors

    If there are two authors, include the last name of each and the publication year:

        ... as James and Ryerson (1999) demonstrated...
        ... as has been shown (James & Ryerson, 1999)... 

3 or more authors

    If there are three or more authors, include the last name of only the first author followed by "et al.":

        Wottom et al. (2017) found that...
        ... was also noted (Wotton et al., 2017)... 

Corporate authors

    The names of groups that serve as authors (e.g., corporations, associations, government agencies, and study groups) are usually spelled out each time they appear in a text citation. If it will not cause confusion for the reader, names may be abbreviated thereafter:

        First citation: (National Institute of Mental Health [NIMH], 1999)
        Subsequent citations: (NIMH, 1999) 

Back to top
Citing specific parts (pages, sections, & paragraphs)

    To cite a specific part of a source, indicate the page, chapter, figure, table or equation at the appropriate point in the text:

        (Czapiewski & Ruby, 1995, p. 10)
        (Wilmarth, 1980, Chapter 3) 

    For electronic sources that do not provide page numbers, provide a heading or section name, abbreviated heading or section name, paragraph number, or a combination of heading name and paragraph number.

        (Myers, 2000, para. 5)
        (Bruce, 2020, “Why Individual Research Consultations” section)
        (Beutler, 2000, Conclusion section, para. 1) 

    For audiovisual works, such as TEDTalks, provide the time stamp of where the quote begins.

        "... we first of all need to consider emotional intelligence as a crucial skill in our society..." (Hacker, 2018, 6:10) 

Back to top
Citing traditional knowledge or oral traditions of Indigenous peoples

    If the information is recorded and recoverable by readers, cite the source in your text and include it as an entry in the reference list. Be sure to examine published work to ensure that information it is providing is both accurate and appropriate before citing it.
    Oral Traditions or Traditional Knowledge that is not recorded should have as much detail as possible in the parenthetical citations. In this circumstance, there would be no reference list entry. For more information, refer to section 8.9 of the Publication Manual

Back to top
Secondary sources (indirect citation)

    When citing a work which is discussed in another work, include the original author's name in an explanatory sentence, and then include the source you actually consulted in your parenthetical reference and in your reference list.

        Smith argued that... (as cited in Andrews, 2007)

Back to top
Quotations
Direct quotations of sources

Direct quotations allow you to acknowledge a source within your text by providing a reference to exactly where in that source you found the information. The reader can then follow up on the complete reference in the Reference List page at the end of your paper.
Short direct quotations

    Quotations of less than 40 words should be incorporated in the text and enclosed with double quotation marks. Provide the author, publication year and a page number.

        She stated, "The 'placebo effect,' ... disappeared when behaviors were studied in this manner" (Miele, 1993, p. 276), but he did not clarify which behaviors were studied.

        Miele (1993) found that "the 'placebo effect,' which had been verified in previous studies, disappeared when [only the first group's] behaviors were studied in this manner" (p. 276). 

Long direct quotations

    When including a quotation of more than 40 words, use a free-standing "block quotation" on a new line, indented 0.5 inches and omit quotation marks.

        Miele (1993) found the following:

            The "placebo effect," which had been verified in previous studies, disappeared when behaviors were studied in this manner. Furthermore, the behaviors were never exhibited, even when reel [sic] drugs were administered. Earlier studies were clearly premature in attributing the results to a placebo effect. (p. 276)

Further examples and explanations are available in Section 8.27 of the Publication Manual.
Back to top
Generative AI (eg., ChatGPT)

    When citing work produced by generative AI, include the author of the generative AI model and the year of the version used.

        (OpenAI, 2023)
        OpenAI (2023) 

The How to cite ChatGPT post on the APA Style Blog has more information.

Note: Methods of citing materials generated by artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT are rapidly changing. Check with your course instructor or thesis supervisor before using or citing material generated by AI tools. You should also check whether the tool you’re using has terms of use or guidelines on how to credit use of the tool (for example, from OpenAI).
Back to top
Reference list - overview

The alphabetical list of references that appears at the end of your paper contains more information about all of the sources you have used allowing readers to refer to them, as needed. The main characteristics are:

    The list of references must be on a new page at the end of your text
    The word References should be written in bold and centered at the top of the page
    Entries are arranged alphabetically by the author's last name or by the title if there is no author
    Titles of larger works (i.e. books, journals, encyclopedias) are italicized
    Entries are double-spaced (for the purposes of this handout, single-spacing is used)
    For each entry, the first line is typed flush with the left margin. Additional lines are indented as a group, 0.5 inches to the right of the left margin (hanging indent)

Below are some examples of the most common types of sources including online sources (Web and databases). For more examples, refer to Chapter 10 of the Publication Manual.
Back to top
Books
Book with one author

    Bernstein, T. M. (1965). The careful writer: A modern guide to English usage (2nd ed.). Atheneum.

Electronic book or audiobook

    Add the DOI after the publisher's information.

DOIs often appear in the citation or the abstract of an article and look like this: doi:10.1016/j.paid.2015.04.008. Learn more...

    Anderson, C.A., Gentile, D.A., & Buckley, K.E. (2007). Violent video game effects on children and adolescents: Theory, research and public policy. Oxford University Press. https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195309836.001.0001

    If no DOI is present, replace DOI with a URL.

    Obama, M. (2018). Becoming. Random House Audio. https://bit.ly/2VrI0mu

Work with two authors

    Beck, C. A. J., & Sales, B. D. (2001). Family mediation: Facts, myths, and future prospects. American Psychological Association.

Two or more works by the same author

    Arrange by the year of publication, the earliest first.

    Postman, N. (1979). Teaching as a conserving activity. Delacorte Press.

    Postman, N. (1985). Amusing ourselves to death: Public discourse in the age of show business. Viking.

    If works by the same author are published in the same year, arrange alphabetically by title and add a letter after the year as indicated below.

    McLuhan, M. (1970a). Culture is our business. McGraw-Hill.

    McLuhan, M. (1970b). From cliché to archetype. Viking Press.

Book by a corporate author

    Associations, corporations, agencies, government departments and organizations are considered authors when there is no single author.

    American Psychological Association. (1972). Ethical standards of psychologists. American Psychological Association.

Back to top
Anthologies, coursepacks, dictionaries & encyclopedias
Anthology or compilation

    Gibbs, J. T., & Huang, L. N. (Eds.). (1991). Children of color: Psychological interventions with minority youth. Jossey-Bass.

Work in an anthology or an essay in a book

    Bjork, R. A. (1989). Retrieval inhibition as an adaptive mechanism in human memory. In H. L. Roediger III, & F. I. M. Craik (Eds.), Varieties of memory & consciousness (pp. 309–330). Erlbaum.

Work in a coursepack

    Goleman, D. (2009). What makes a leader? In D. Demers (Ed.), AHSC 230: Interpersonal communication and relationships (pp. 47–56). Concordia University Bookstore. (Reprinted from Harvard Business Review, 76(6), pp.93–102, 1998).

An entry in a dictionary, group author

    If the retrieval date is continuously updated and the versions are not archived, include a retrieval date before the URL.

    Oxford University Press. (2020, March). Revolutionary. In Oxford English Dictionary (3rd ed.). https://www.oed.com/view/Entry/164973?redirectedFrom=Revolutionary#eid.

Article in a reference book or an entry in an encyclopedia, individual author

    If an entry has an individual author, include the author’s name, the editor of the encyclopedia, and the publisher of the encyclopedia.

    Guignon, C. B. (1998). Existentialism. In E. Craig (Ed.), Routledge encyclopedia of philosophy (Vol. 3, pp. 493–502). Routledge.

Wikipedia

    Cite the archived version of the page you used. If this is not available, include a retrieval date before the URL.

    Climate change mitigation. (2020, February 24). In Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Climate_change_mitigation&diff=942333969&oldid=942098986

Back to top
Articles
Article in a journal - for electronic articles retrieved online, see below

    Make sure to include the journal title, volume number, issue number, and page.

    Klimoski, R., & Palmer, S. (1993). The ADA and the hiring process in organizations. Consulting Psychology Journal: Practice and Research, 45(2), 10–36.

    Note: if the volume, issue, or page numbers are missing, do not include them in the reference.


Article in a newspaper or magazine

    Burke, J. (2020, March 26). COVID-19: Uncertainty takes the stage for Montreal Theatre. Montreal Gazette, A4. https://montrealgazette.com/entertainment/local-arts/covid-19-uncertainty-takes-the-stage-for-montreal-theatre/wcm/cb9dda25-dc75-4516-8fab-3e4d318d39f3/

Article from an electronic source

    Provide the same information as you would for a printed journal article and add the URL or Digital Object Identifier (DOI).
    If adding the DOI, format it to look like a URL. Refer to example 1 below.
    In general, it is not necessary to include database information (APA, 2020, p. 317).
    You can identify your source by including ONE of the following:


    DOI (digital object identifier)

    A DOI is a standardized method for identifying an electronic object. They look something like this: doi:10.1016/j.chb.2008.02.012. DOIs often appear in the citation or the abstract of an article or at the top or bottom of the first page of the article. You may find the DOI for your article by using CrossRef.org. Find out more about DOIs.

    Zhao, S., Grasmuck, S., & Martin, J. (2008). Identity construction on Facebook: Digital empowerment in anchored relationships. Computers in Human Behavior, 24(5), 1816–1836. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2008.02.012

    URL for an online periodical

    If there is no DOI for an article found in an academic database, do not include the URL. (APA, 2020, p. 299).

    Henkin, R., Harmon, J., Pate, E., & Moorman, H. (2010). Merging literacy and technology. Voices from the Middle, 17(3), 7–8.
    If there is no DOI for an article found from a website that is not a database, provide the URL in the reference.

    Robinson, B. (2019). No holds barred: Policing and security in the public library. In the Library with the Lead Pipe. https://www.inthelibrarywiththeleadpipe.org/2019/no-holds-barred

Back to top
Multimedia
Television or radio program

    Smart, V. (Writer & Director). (2019, October 6). Havana syndrome: Investigating what made diplomats sick (Season 45, Episode 3) [TV series episode]. In C. Legge (Executive Producer), The fifth estate. Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.

Film, videorecording or DVD

    Kubrick, S. (Director). (1980). The Shining [Film]. Warner Brothers.

YouTube videos

    King Arthur Flour. (2015, August 7). How to braid a three strand loaf [Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EB4NWC9SNBY&t=27s

Podcast (single episode)

    Stubner, S. (Host). (2020, March 25). What does COVID-19 mean for cities (and marriages)? [Audio podcast episode]. In Freakonomics. Stitcher Radio. https://freakonomics.com/

Online lecture notes and presentation slides (such as Moodle)

    Cress, C. M. (2009). Curricular strategies for student success and engaged learning [PowerPoint slides]. Moodle. https://moodle.concordia.ca/moodle/login/index.php

Back to top
Webpages

Note: An in-text citation or reference list entry is not required when making a general mention of a website. Further examples are available in section 8.22 of the Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association.
Webpages & non-periodical documents on the Internet

When citing a website or webpage:

    Include the author, title of the document, and if available, always include the date the material was updated or posted online. If the page may be changed or moved, include the date of retrieval. Include the URL of the document cited.
    If there is no author, place the title in the author position.
    If there is no date, replace the date with (n.d.) to signify that there is no date for the material.
    If the author and name of the website are the same, do not include the website name in the reference list entry.

Webpage with an individual author

    Beaudry, G. (2021, September 8). A message from Dr. Beaudry. Concordia University Library. https://library.concordia.ca/about/university-librarian/?guid=msg

Webpage with a group author

Note in this example, the author and website name are the same, so the website name is not included in the reference

    United Nations Global Compact. (2020). Endorse the women’s empowerment principles. Retrieved April 6, 2020 from https://www.unglobalcompact.org/take-action/action/womens-principles

Further examples and explanations are available in section 10.16 and throughout chapter 10 of the Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association.
Back to top
Patents

Note: The URL is optional, however, it should be included if it is available.

    Erb, R., Warmouth, C., Long, V. R., & VanHoutin, L. A. (2018). Football helmet shell. U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. https://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO1&Sect2=HITOFF&d=PALL&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsrchnum.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&s1=D836253.PN.&OS=PN/D836253&RS=PN/D836253

Note: The in-text citation for the above patent would be:

(Erb et al., 2018)
Back to top
Generative AI (eg., ChatGPT)
Format:

    Author of AI model used. (Year of AI model used). Name of AI model used (Version of AI model used) [Type or description of AI model used]. Web address of AI model used 

Example:

    OpenAI. (2023).ChatGPT (May 24 version) [Large language model] https://chat.openai.com/

If you wish, the full transcript of the prompt and the AI’s response can be included in an appendix or other supplementary materials.

The How to cite ChatGPT post on the APA Style Blog has more information.

Note: Methods of citing materials generated by artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT are rapidly changing. Check with your course instructor or thesis supervisor before using or citing material generated by AI tools. You should also check whether the tool you’re using has terms of use or guidelines on how to credit use of the tool (for example, from OpenAI).

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/apa.php

title: Citing business databases in APA format
description: 

This guide focuses on citing business sources using the Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association, (APA) 6th ed., and gives citation examples for the most commonly used business sources.

If you cannot find the source you are looking for, please refer to the APA Publication Manual available at the Reference Desk. For a general overview of APA citation style, consult Concordia's APA Citation Guide.
How to cite...

General Guidelines for Citing Business Sources in Your Bibliography Using APA 6th ed:
When citing from a library database, include the database name only. Only use a URL when citing directly from a website or a wiki. It is good practice to include the retrieval date when no exact date is found or when the content changes frequently (wiki, directory, etc.).

Specific examples with in-text citations and bibliographic references:

    Annual Reports
    Academic Articles and Newspapers
    CPA Canada Standards and Guidance Collection
    Social Media
    Tables and Statistical Resources

Back to top
Citing Sources in Your Reference List
Business Source Complete

Datamonitor. (2011, July 12). Advance Auto Parts, Inc.: Company profile. Retrieved from Business Source Complete database.
  
Canadian Company Capabilities

Meta Vision Systems Inc. (2011, March 18). Meta Vision Systems Inc.: Company information. Retrieved from Canadian Company Capabilities database.
  
CANSIM Tables (Statistics Canada)

Statistics Canada. (2011, July 5). CANSIM table 080-0009, survey of large retailers, monthly (dollars) [Table]. Retrieved from CANSIM database.
  
Capital IQ

S&P Capital IQ. (2012). Apple Inc.: Public company profile. Retrieved January 27, 2012, from S&P Capital IQ database.
  
CPA Canada Standards and Guidance Collection

Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada. (2015, September). Public sector accounting standards: Concepts and principles. Section: PS 1000 - PS 1300. In Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada Handbook. Retrieved from the CPA Canada Standards and Guidance Collection.
  
Economist Intelligence Unit

Economist Intelligence Unit. (2011, April). Country report: India. Retrieved from Economist Intelligence Unit database.
  
EDGAR

Microsoft Corp. (2011, July 28). Form 10-K. Retrieved from EDGAR database.
  
eStatement Studies

Risk Management Association. (2011). 111920-cotton farming. Retrieved January 20, 2012, from RMA eStatement Studies database.
  
Factiva

The feeling is mutual; John Lewis as a model. (2012, January 21). The Economist 402, 28. Retrieved from Factiva database.
  
Financial Performance Data (Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada)

Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada (2015). Financial Performance Data, 2013 reference year: Canada, All Businesses, Report for: NAICS 312120 - Breweries. Retrieved from http://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/pp-pp.nsf/eng/home
  
FP Advisor

Infomart. (2012, January 3). FP industry reports: Insurance. Retrieved from FP Advisor database.

Infomart. (n.d.). FP corporate analyzer: Canadian Tire Corporation, Limited. Retrieved January 13, 2012, from FP Advisor database.
  
Hoover's

Cella, J. (2012, January 1). IBM Canada Ltd. Retrieved from Hoover’s Company Profiles database.
  
IBISWorld

Panteva, N. (2011, December). IBISWorld industry report 44812: Women’s clothing stores in the US. Retrieved from IBISWorld database.
  
Ipsos News Center

Braid, K. (2011, October 5). Public views of health care in BC. Retrieved from Ipsos News Center database.
  
Key Business Ratios

Dun and Bradstreet. (n.d.). Industry reports, SIC 08. Retrieved from Key Business Ratios database.
  
Mergent Intellect

Dun and Bradstreet. (n.d.). Loblaws Inc. Retrieved January 13, 2014, from Mergent Intellect database.
  
Mergent Online

Mergent. (2011, February 2). Johnson & Johnson: Company financials. Retrieved from Mergent Online database.
  
Passport GMID

Euromonitor International. (2011, March 10). Coffee in Canada: Category briefing. Retrieved from Passport GMID database.
  
PMB Print Measurement Bureau

Print Measurement Bureau. (2011). Personally drunk in past 6 months. PMB 2011 Category Reports: Alcohol Wine. Retrieved from PMB database.
  
ProQuest Business Databases (ABI/INFORM)

Vukovic, V. (2011). Political economy of the US financial crisis 2007-2009. Financial Theory and Practice, 35(1), 91-128. Retrieved from ABI/INFORM Global database.
  
SEDAR

Air Canada. (2011, March 31). Air Canada: Annual report 2010. Retrieved from SEDAR database.
  
Standard & Poor's NetAdvantage

Standard & Poor's. (2012, January 10). Dr. Pepper Snapple Group. Standard & Poor's Stock Report. Retrieved from S&P NetAdvantage database.

Standard & Poor's. (2011, August 4). Communications equipment. Standard & Poor's Industry Surveys. Retrieved from S&P NetAdvantage database.
  
Statista

Statista. (2015, October). Weekly social media site access in selected countries as of October 2015. Retrieved from Statista database.
  
Statistics Canada

Data Sets

Statistics Canada. (2011, January 17). Film, television and video post-production [Data file]. Retrieved from http://www40.statcan.ca/l01/cst01/ARTS63A-eng.htm

Online Documents

Statistics Canada. (2010). Consumer goods rental. Catalogue no. 63-239-x. Retrieved February 10, 2012, from http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/63-239-x/63-239-x2011000-eng.pdf
  
Sustainalytics

Sustainalytics. (2012). Adobe Systems Inc.: Company report. Retrieved January 19, 2012, from Sustainalytics database.
  
Thomson ONE

Doerksen, C. & Umayr, A. (2012, January 16). Westjet Airlines Ltd. National Bank Financial. Retrieved from Thomson One database.

Thomson Financial. (2012). Apple Inc.: Company overview. Retrieved January 26, 2012, from Thomson One database.
  
Value Line Investment Survey

Ratty, M. (2012, January 12). Pfizer Inc. Retrieved from Value Line database.

link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/finance/citing-databases.html

title: How to set up a running head APA style in MS Word
description: 
link: https://www.concordia.ca/content/dam/library/docs/research-guides/psychology/apa%20running%20head%202014-09.pdf

title: The Way of APA
Citing and Managing Your References
description: 
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/APA-workshop-slides-7th-Edition.pdf

title: MLA Citation Style
description:  Introduction

This guide provides a basic introduction to the MLA citation style. It is based on the 9th edition of the MLA Handbook published by the Modern Language Association in April 2021.

The MLA Handbook is generally used for academic writing in the humanities. The handbook itself covers many aspects of research writing including evaluating sources, the mechanics of writing, the format of the research paper, plagiarism, as well as the way to cite sources.

This guide provides basic explanations and examples for the most common types of citations used by students. For additional information and examples, refer to the MLA Handbook.
Back to top
In-text citations - General guidelines

With in-text citations, you acknowledge a source by providing a brief reference to exactly where in the source you found the information. The reader can then use the complete reference listed in the Works Cited page at the end of your paper to verify what you have written. Further examples and explanations are available in the MLA Handbook.

    In most cases, providing the author's last name and a page number is sufficient. Example:

In response to rapid metropolitan expansion, urban renewal projects sought "an order in which more significant kinds of conflict, more complex and intellectually stimulating kinds of disharmony, may take place" (Mumford 485).

    If you mention the author’s name in your text, only the page reference needs to be inserted in parentheses. Example:

According to Postman, broadcast news influences the decision-making process (51-63).
Back to top
In-text citations - Multiple authors or no author

    If there are two authors, include the last name of each. Example:

(Winks and Kaiser 176)

    If there are three or more authors, include the last name of the first author followed by "et al." without any intervening punctuation. Example:

(Baldwin et al. 306)

    If there is no author, as is the case with some web pages, include either the whole title of the work in the text or use a shortened form of the title in parentheses, using the first words of the title. Italicize the titles of books or entire web sites and place the titles of articles or individual web pages in quotation marks.
    Example of entire web site:

Voice of the Shuttle has many electronic sources.

    Example of individual web page:

Gophers can have many detrimental effects on lawns, including building underground tunnels, eating plants, and disturbing root systems (“Gophers”).

    If your source has no page numbers, but has labelled section or paragraph numbers, you can indicate these numbers in your parenthetical reference. If there are no such reference marks, do not create or include them in your reference.
    Example where paragraph or section numbers are available:

Winston argues that "Rourke has lowered his defenses" (par. 29).

    Example where no paragraph or section numbers are available:

The Lincoln administration was against secession, as it would “create a fatal precedent that would eventually fragment the no-longer United States into several small, squabbling countries” (McPherson).
Back to top
In-text citations - Audiovisual resources

Audiovisual recordings such as videos and songs do not have page numbers to be included in in-text citations. For such time-based media, you should include the time or range of times for any segment you are quoting or discussing.

Example:

Near the beginning of the film, a woman tells Johnnie that Lina is “a very carefully brought-up young lady” (Suspicion 4:50).
Back to top
In-text citations - Generative AI (eg., ChatGPT)

Since there is no author for materials created by generative AI, you can use the first part of the prompt in the in-text citation.

Example:

If the original prompt was “Explain how ChatGPT works to a layperson who knows nothing about computers”, the in-text citation would be:

("Explain how ChatGPT works")

More examples are available on the MLA Style Center entry How do I cite generative AI in MLA style.

Note: Methods of citing materials generated by artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT are rapidly changing. Check with your course instructor or thesis supervisor before using or citing material generated by AI tools. You should also check whether the tool you’re using has terms of use or guidelines on how to credit use of the tool (for example, from OpenAI).
Back to top
In-text citations - Indirect quotations

    When citing a quotation which is cited in another source, indicate the source you actually consulted in your parenthetical reference and in your works cited. Use the abbreviation qtd. in to indicate that the information has been quoted in another source.
    Example:

Landow admitted that there was "work to be done" (qtd. in Rogers 333).
Back to top
In-text citations - Long quotations

If you are quoting text that is longer than four typed lines in your paper, block indent the passage half an inch (1.27 cm) from the left margin. Do not surround the quotation with quotation marks. The parenthetical reference follows the final punctuation.

Example:

    Anderson argues that all nations can be measured:

        The nation is imagined as limited because even the largest of them, encompassing perhaps a billion living human beings, has finite, if elastic, boundaries, beyond which lie other nations. No nation imagines itself coterminous with mankind. The most messianic nationalists do not dream of a day when all the members of the human race will join their nation in the way that it was possible, in certain epochs, for, say, Christians to dream of a wholly Christian planet. (7) 

Back to top
Works cited - General guidelines

The alphabetical list of works cited that appears at the end of your paper contains more information about all of the sources you've cited, allowing readers to refer to them, as needed. The main characteristics are:

    The list of Works Cited must be on a new page at the end of your text
    Entries are arranged alphabetically by the author's last name or by the title if there is no author
    Titles of books are italicized and titles of articles are placed in quotation marks. All important words should be capitalized
    Entries are double-spaced (for the purposes of this page, single-spacing is used)
    For online sources, date of access is an optional element. However, it can be helpful to include this information, especially if the source you are using does not have a date of publication

Back to top
Works cited - Two or more works by the same creator

Begin by arranging the creator’s works in alphabetical order. Create a full entry for the first work in the list (following the instructions below). For the other work(s), replace the creator’s name by three hyphens and arrange alphabetically by the work’s title.

Example:

    Postman, Neil. Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business. Viking,     1985.

    ---. The Disappearance of Childhood. Vintage, 1994. 

Back to top
Works cited - Book with 1 author

    Last Name, First Name. Title. Publisher, Year of Publication. 

Example:

    Mumford, Lewis. The Culture of Cities. Harcourt, 1938.

Back to top
Works cited - Book with 2 authors

    First Author’s Last Name, First Author’s First Name, and Second Author’s First and Last Names. Title. Publisher, Year of Publication. 

Example:

    Ormerod, Neil, and Christiaan Jacobs-Vandegeer. Foundational Theology. Fortress Press, 2015. 

Back to top
Works cited - Book with 3 or more authors

    First Author’s Last Name, First Author’s First Name, et al. Title. Publisher, Year of Publication.

Note: these rules regarding the listing of authors also apply to other kinds of sources (e.g. journal articles).

Example:

    Francis, R. Douglas, et al. Destinies: Canadian History since Confederation. Harcourt, 2000. 

Back to top
Works cited - Anthology or compilation

Include the word “editor” after the editor’s name.

Example:

    Abate, Corinne S., editor. Privacy, Domesticity, and Women in Early Modern England. Ashgate, 2003. 

Back to top
Works cited - Work in an anthology or an essay in a book

    Last Name, First Name. “Work Title.” Book Title, edited by Editor Name, Publisher, Year, pp. <page range>. 

Example:

    Naremore, James. "Hitchcock at the Margins of Noir." Alfred Hitchcock: Centenary Essays, edited by Richard Allen and S. Ishii-Gonzalès, BFI, 1999, pp. 263-77. 

Back to top
Works cited - Book by a corporate author

    Associations, corporations, agencies and organizations are considered authors when there is no single author. 

Example:

    Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Action against Climate Change: The Kyoto Protocol and Beyond. OECD, 1999. 

Back to top
Works cited - Article in a reference book or an entry in an encyclopedia

If the article/entry is signed, include the author's name; if unsigned, begin with the title of the entry.

Example of a signed article:

    Guignon, Charles B. "Existentialism." Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, edited by Edward Craig, Routledge, 1998. 

Example of an unsigned article:

    “Niagara Falls.” Encyclopaedia Britannica. Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc., 2016. 

Back to top
Works cited - A translation

The translator’s name follows the title of the work.

Example:

    Murakami, Haruki. 1Q84. Translated by Jay Rubin and Philip Gabriel, Alfred A. Knopf, 2011. 

Back to top
Works cited - Book in a series

Optionally, you may include the series title at the end of the citation, followed by the number in the series if applicable.

Example:

    Bloom, Harold, editor. André Malraux. Chelsea House, 1988. Modern Critical Views. 

Back to top
Works cited - Article in a journal

    Last Name, First Name. “Article Title.” Title of Journal, vol. #, no. #, Month/Season Year, pp. <page range>. 

Example:

    Ferrer, Ada. "Cuba 1898: Rethinking Race, Nation, and Empire." Radical History Review, vol. 73, Winter 1999, pp. 22-49.

NOTE – If an article is not printed on consecutive pages, record the first page number followed by a plus sign. If there are no page numbers, leave the field blank.

Example of article with non-consecutive page numbers:

    Mack, Candice. “From the President.” Young Adult Library Services, vol. 14, no. 2, Winter 2016, pp. 3+.

Example of article with no page numbers:

    Sehmby, Dalbir S. "Wrestling and Popular Culture." CCLWeb: Comparative Literature and Culture, vol. 4, no. 1, March 2002.

Article retrieved from a library database:

Provide the same information as you would for a printed journal article and add the name of the database in italics, and include the URL or doi to the article.

Example:

    Wolfensberger, Donald R. “Happy Together?” The Wilson Quarterly, vol. 33, no. 1, Winter 2009, pp. 63-66. JSTOR, jstor.org/stable/40262243. 

Example with date of access (optional element):

    Heming, Li, Paul Waley, and Phil Rees. "Reservoir Resettlement in China: Past Experience and  the Three Gorges Dam." The Geographical Journal, vol. 167, no. 3, Sept. 2001, pp. 195-212. Wiley-Blackwell Journals, DOI: 10.1111/1475-4959.00018. Accessed 29 Mar. 2014. 

Back to top
Works cited - Article in a newspaper or magazine

    Last Name, First Name. “Article Title.” Title of Newspaper or Magazine, Date, <page range>. 

Examples:

    Semenak, Susan. "Feeling Right at Home: Government Residence Eschews Traditional Rules." Montreal Gazette, 28 Dec. 1995, A4.

    Driedger, Sharon Doyle. "After Divorce." Maclean's, 20 Apr. 1998, pp. 38-43. 

For newspaper and magazine articles retrieved online, please see examples for journal articles retrieved from a library database.
Back to top
Works cited - An entire website

    Last Name, First Name. Title of Website. Date, URL. 

Example:

    Linder, Douglas O. Famous Trials. 2009, law2.umkc.edu/faculty/projects/ftrials/ftrials.htm. 

Back to top
Works cited - A page on a Web site

An entry for a nonperiodical item found on the Web contains the following:

    Last Name, First Name. "Document Title if Available." Title of the Overall Web site, Date, URL.   

If you cannot find some of this information, include only what is available. Example (including optional date of access):

    "Paul Graham." Maker's Schedule, Manager's Schedule, 2009, paulgraham.com/makersschedule.html. Accessed 3 Dec. 2020.

Back to top
Works cited - Social media posts

If the author’s name begins with “@”, disregard it when alphabetizing your Works Cited list. Instead, begin with the character immediately following it.

    Author. “Full text of post.” Name of Social Media Website, Date, Time, URL. 

Twitter example:

    @UNFCCC. “In 2021, around 100 countries pledged to cut global methane emissions by 30% by 2030. Now is the time to turn those promises into concrete actions that deliver immediate emission cuts. #ClimateAction.” Twitter, 22 Feb. 2023, 11:09 a.m., twitter.com/UNFCCC/status/1628426803613163524?cxt=HHwWiICzwZrjqpktAAAA.

Instagram example:

    @montreal. “Doux lundi // Peaceful Monday Photo par / by           @susanmossphotography #MTLmoments #MTL #montreal.” Instagram, 13 June 2016, 5:40 a.m., instagram.com/p/BGmFK7Ny9TF/?hl=en. 

Back to top
Works cited - Emails

    Author of email. “Subject.” Received by Recipient Name, Date. 

Example:

    Bélanger, Suzanne. “Travaux de Construction.” Received by Ravi Vishnaj, 9 Feb. 2016. 

Back to top
Works cited - Sound recording

    Last Name, First Name. “Title of Track.” Album Title, Record Label, Year. 

Example:

    Ellington, Duke. "Black and Tan Fantasy." Music is My Mistress, Musicmasters, 1989. 

If the recording was obtained online, include a link to the website. Example:

    Jonas, Nick, and Tove Lo. “Close.” Last Year Was Complicated, Island and Safehouse, 2016. listen.tidal.com/track/61554644. 

Back to top
Works cited - YouTube video

    “Title of Video.” Video Hosting Service, uploaded by Uploader name, date of upload, URL. 

Example:

    “Ken Burns & Henry Louis Gates, Jr. in Conversation with Michel Martin.” YouTube, uploaded by BAMorg, 18 Mar. 2016, youtube.com/watch?v=42OlCnuXN0A. 

Back to top
Works cited - Generative AI (eg., ChatGPT)

    "Prompt used in the AI." Name of the AI tool, version if available, Company that made the tool, date the content was generated, general URL for the tool. 

Example:

    "Explain how ChatGPT works to a layperson who knows nothing about computers" prompt. ChatGPT, 24 May version, OpenAI, 28 June 2023, https://chat.openai.com/chat 

Back to top
Works cited - Film, videorecording or DVD

The format of your citations depends on the focus of your work. If you want to emphasize the role of a particular contributor (such as a director, performer, or writer), list the person’s name first, followed by their role, then the title of the film. Otherwise, you can start with the title of the film.

Example where the film title is listed first:

    The Shining. Directed by Stanley Kubrick, performances by Jack Nicholson and Shelley Duvall, Warner Bros., 1980. 

Example where a contributor is listed first:

    Nair, Mira, director. Monsoon Wedding. Performances by Naseeruddin Shah and Lillete Dubey, Mirabai Films, 2001. 

Back to top
Works cited - Television or radio program

As with films, videorecordings and DVDs, elements can be ordered in different ways depending on what you want to emphasize. Here is how citations are structured if no particular contributor is being emphasized:

    “Episode Title.” Program Title, created by Creator Name, performance[s] by Performer Name[s], season #, episode #, Network, Date. 

Example:

    “Blax, Snake, Home.” Happy Endings, created by David Caspe, performance by Elisha Cuthbert, season 2, episode 1,  ABC, 28 Sept. 2011. 

Example of program obtained from a website (including optional date of access):

    “Arianna Huffington.” The Daily Show, created by Lizz Winstead and Madeleine Smithberg, performance by Trevor Noah, season 21, episode 111, Comedy Central, 19 May 2016. ctv.ca/TheDailyShow/video.aspx?vid=870157. Accessed 12 June 2016.

Back to top
Works cited - Untitled sources

This format could apply for items such as artifacts or works of art.

    Creator. Description. Year/Range of Years, Museum, Place. 

Example:

    Savage & Lyman Co. Brooch and earrings. About 1845, McCord Museum, Montreal. 


link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/mla.php

title: MLA Handbook
description: (Access restricted to Concordia Users)
link: https://mlahandbookplus-org.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/books/book/5/MLA-Handbook

title: Chicago citation style 
description:  Introduction

This guide provides some basic examples of the Chicago citation style. It is based on the 17th edition of the Chicago Manual of Style published in 2017. Copies of the full manual are available at the Vanier and Webster Libraries' Reference Desks and Reference Collections, as well as online. The call number for the manual is Z 253 U69 2010.

The Chicago Manual of Style has two basic systems for documentation of sources: (1) notes and bibliography and (2) author-date.

Notes and bibliography (N & B)
This system is used primarily by those writing in the humanities (literature, history, classics etc.) Sources are cited in numbered footnotes or endnotes. Each note corresponds to a superscript number within the text. Additionally, sources are listed in a separate bibliography. This system is able to accommodate a wider variety of sources than can the author-date system.

Author-date (T-R)
This system is more common in the sciences and social sciences (biology, anthropology, psychology etc.). Here, sources are cited parenthetically within the text, by author’s last name and year of publication. Each of these citations then match up with an entry in a reference list, where the full bibliographic information is included.

Both of these systems follow the same basic framework: author’s name (or editor, translator), title, publication information, year of publication. If the reference is from a passage in a book or journal article, page numbers for that passage or article are given.

For complete Chicago style citing information, please consult the full manual.
Back to top
Book with a single author or editor
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	1. Ken Kesey, Sometimes a Great Notion (New York: Bantam Books, 1981), 77.
B: 	

Kesey, Ken. Sometimes a Great Notion. New York: Bantam Books, 1981.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Kesey 1981, 77)
R: 	

Kesey, Ken. 1981. Sometimes a Great Notion. New York: Bantam Books.
Back to top
Book with multiple authors
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	2. Stephen J. Farnsworth, S. Robert Lichter, and Roland Schatz, The Global President: International Media and the US Government. 2nd ed. (Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield, 2013), 216–19.
B: 	

Farnsworth, Stephen J., S. Robert Lichter, and Roland Schatz. The Global President: International Media and the US Government. 2nd ed. Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield, 2013.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Farnsworth, Lichter, and Schatz 2013, 216-19)
R: 	

Farnsworth, Stephen J., S. Robert Lichter, and Roland Schatz. 2013. The Global President: International Media and the US Government. 2nd ed. Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield.
Back to top
Chapter in a multi-author book
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	3. Roland Barthes, “From Work to Text,” in The Cultural Studies Reader, ed. Simon During (London: Routledge, 2007), 110–17.
B: 	

Barthes, Roland. “From Work to Text.” In The Cultural Studies Reader, edited by Simon During, 110–117. London: Routledge, 2007.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Barthes 2007, 110–17)
R: 	

Barthes, Roland. 2007. “From Work to Text.” In The Cultural Studies Reader, edited by Simon During, 110–17. London: Routledge.
Back to top
E-book (from the library catalogue)
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	4. Christopher Gonzalez, Reading Junot Diaz (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 2015), 49–88, https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://muse.jhu.edu/book/44077/.
B: 	

Gonzalez, Christopher. Reading Junot Diaz. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 2015. https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://muse.jhu.edu/book/44077/.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Gonzalez 2015, 49–88)
R: 	

Gonzalez, Christopher. 2015. Reading Junot Diaz. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press. https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://muse.jhu.edu/book/44077/.
Back to top
Book review
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	5. Ian McGillis, “Ann-Marie MacDonald Mines Her Own Life in Adult Onset,” review of Adult Onset, by Ann-Marie MacDonald, Montreal Gazette, November 14, 2014.
B: 	

McGillis, Ian. “Ann-Marie MacDonald Mines Her Own Life in Adult Onset.” Review of Adult Onset, by Ann-Marie MacDonald. Montreal Gazette, November 14, 2014.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(McGillis 2014)
R: 	

McGillis, Ian. 2014. “Ann-Marie MacDonald Mines Her Own Life in Adult Onset.” Review of Adult Onset, by Ann-Marie MacDonald. Montreal Gazette, November 14, 2014.
Back to top
Article in a print journal
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	6. Lee Rothfarb, "Nineteenth-Century Fortunes of Musical Formalism," Journal of Music Theory 55, no.2 (Fall 2011): 178.
B: 	

Rothfarb, Lee. "Nineteenth-Century Fortunes of Musical Formalism." Journal of Music Theory 55, no. 2 (2011): 167–220.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Rothfarb 2011, 178)
R: 	

Rothfarb, Lee. 2011. "Nineteenth-Century Fortunes of Musical Formalism." Journal of Music Theory 55, no.2 (Fall): 167–220.
Back to top
Article in an online journal (with DOI)
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	7. Malcolm Sambridge, and Rado Faletič, "Adaptive Whole Earth Tomography," Geochemistry, Geophysics, Geosystems 4, no.3 (March 2003): 225, doi:10.1029/2001GC000213.
B: 	

Sambridge, Malcolm, and Rado Faletič. "Adaptive Whole Earth Tomography." Geochemistry, Geophysics, Geosystems4, no. 3 (March 2003): 221–243. doi:10.1029/2001GC000213.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Sambridge and Faletič 2003, 225)
R: 	

Sambridge, Malcolm, and Rado Faletič. 2003. "Adaptive Whole Earth Tomography." Geochemistry, Geophysics, Geosystems 4, no.3 (March): 221–243. doi:10.1029/2001GC000213.
Back to top
Article in an online journal (without DOI)
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	8. Marjory S. Blumenthal, and David D. Clark, "Rethinking the design of the Internet: the end-to-end arguments vs. the brave new world," ACM Transactions on Internet Technology (TOIT)1, no. 1 (May 2001): 88, https://delivery.acm.org/10.1145/390000/383037/p70-blumenthal.pdf...
B: 	

Blumenthal, Marjory S., and David D. Clark. "Rethinking the design of the Internet: the end-to-end arguments vs. the brave new world." ACM Transactions on Internet Technology (TOIT)1, no. 1 (May 2001): 70–109, https://delivery.acm.org/10.1145/390000/383037/p70-blumenthal.pdf...
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Blumenthal and Clark 2001, 88)
R: 	

Blumenthal, Marjory S., and David D. Clark. 2001. "Rethinking the design of the Internet: the end-to-end arguments vs. the brave new world." ACM Transactions on Internet Technology (TOIT)1, no. 1 (May): 70–109, https://delivery.acm.org/10.1145/390000/383037/p70-blumenthal.pdf...
Back to top
Article from a database (without DOI)
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	9. Jenn Shapland, "Mother Matter: Transcorporeality in Carole Maso and Joan Didion," Contemporary Women's Writing 9, no. 3 (November 2015): 318, MLA International Bibliography, EBSCOhost/2016700385.
B: 	

Shapland, Jenn. "Mother Matter: Transcorporeality in Carole Maso and Joan Didion." Contemporary Women's Writing 9, no. 3 (November 2015): 311–329, MLA International Bibliography, EBSCOhost/2016700385.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Shapland 2015, 318)
R: 	

Shapland, Jenn. 2015. "Mother Matter: Transcorporeality in Carole Maso and Joan Didion." Contemporary Women's Writing 9, no. 3 (November): 311–329. MLA International Bibliography, EBSCOhost/ 2016700385.
Back to top
Article from a database (4 or more authors)
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	10. T. Vigil-Stenman et al., "Local hopping mobile DNA implicated in pseudogene formation and reductive evolution in an obligate cyanobacteria-plant symbiosis," BMC Genomics 16, no. 1 (December 12, 2015): 327+, DOI:10.1186/s12864-015-1386-7.
B: 	

Vigil-Stenman, T., B. Bergman, J. Larsson, and J.A.A. Nylander. "Local hopping mobile DNA implicated in pseudogene formation and reductive evolution in an obligate cyanobacteria-plant symbiosis." BMC Genomics 16, no. 1 (December 12, 2015): 327+, DOI:10.1186/s12864-015-1386-7.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Vigil-Stenman et al. 2015, 327)
R: 	

Vigil-Stenman, T., B. Bergman, J. Larsson, and J.A.A. Nylander. 2015. "Local hopping mobile DNA implicated in pseudogene formation." BMC Genomics16, no. 1 (December 12, 2015): 327+, DOI:10.1186/s12864-015-1386-7.
Back to top
Newspaper article (online)
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	11. A. Mitchell, “Moving into post-impeachment political overdrive,” The Gazette, February 10, 1999, https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?qurl=https%3A%2F%2Fsearch.proquest.com%2Fdocview%2F433464081%3Faccou
B: 	

Mitchell, A. “Moving into post-impeachment political overdrive.”The Gazette, February 10, 1999. https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?qurl=https%3A%2F%2Fsearch.proquest.com%2Fdocview%2F433464081%3Faccou
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Mitchell 1999)
R: 	

Mitchell, A. 1999. “Moving into post-impeachment political overdrive.”The Gazette, February 10, 1999. https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?qurl=https%3A%2F%2Fsearch.proquest.com%2Fdocview%2F433464081%3Faccou
Back to top
Lecture
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	12. Anton Zyderveld, and Concordia University, “Rickert's Notion of Cultural Science: Lecture Notes,” (Interdisciplinary Colloquia, Montreal: Concordia University, 1978).
B: 	

Zyderveld, Anton and Concordia University. “Rickert's Notion of Cultural Science: Lecture Notes.” Interdisciplinary Colloquia, Montreal: Concordia University, 1978.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Zyderveld 1978)
R: 	

Zyderveld, Anton and Concordia University. 1978.“Rickert's Notion of Cultural Science: Lecture Notes.” Interdisciplinary Colloquia, Montreal: Concordia University.
Back to top
Video
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	13. Jonathan Demme, Spalding Gray's Swimming to Cambodia, (Montréal: Séville Pictures distributor, 2002), DVD.
B: 	

Demme, Jonathan. Spalding Gray's Swimming to Cambodia. Montréal: Séville Pictures distributor, 2002, DVD.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Demme 2002)
R: 	

Demme, Jonathan. 2002. Spalding Gray's Swimming to Cambodia. Montréal: Séville Pictures distributor. DVD.
Back to top
Website
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	14. Guylaine Beaudry, “'My goal is to develop a next-generation digital culture at Concordia,'” Concordia University, last modified August 30, 2017, https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/main/stories/2017/08/30/
B: 	

Beaudry, Guylaine. “'My goal is to develop a next-generation digital culture at Concordia.'” Concordia University. Last modified August 30, 2017. https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/main/stories/2017/08/30/
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Beaudry 2017)
R: 	

Beaudry, Guylaine. 2017. “'My goal is to develop a next-generation digital culture at Concordia.'” Concordia University. Last modified August 30, 2017. https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/main/stories/2017/08/30/
Back to top
Thesis or dissertation
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	15. Sorel Cohen, “Feminist Art in the ‘70s,” (Masters thesis, Concordia University, 1979), 99-100.
B: 	

Cohen, Sorel. “Feminist Art in the ‘70s.” Masters thesis, Concordia University, 1979.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Cohen 1979, 99-100)
R: 	

Cohen, Sorel. 1979. “Feminist Art in the ‘70s.” Masters thesis, Concordia University.
Back to top
Interview
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	1. Leonard Cohen, “Triumph in the Third Act,” interview by Tom Power, Q, CBC, April 12, 2015, audio, 17:27, https://www.cbc.ca/2015/04/12/524618639/triumph-in-the-third-act.
B: 	

Cohen, Leonard. “Triumph in the Third Act.” Interview by Tom Power. Q, CBC, April 12, 2015, audio, 17:27, https://www.cbc.ca/2015/04/12/524618639/triumph-in-the-third-act.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Cohen 2015)
R: 	

Cohen, Leonard. 2015. “Triumph in the Third Act.” Interview by Tom Power. Q, CBC, April 12, 2015, audio, 17:27, https://www.cbc.ca/2015/04/12/524618639/triumph-in-the-third-act.
Back to top
Social media content
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	16. Concordia University, “Looking for something fun to do around the city this November? Check out this top 5 list of happening events in Montreal,” Facebook, November 3, 2017, https://www.facebook.com/ConcordiaUniversity/
B: 	

Concordia University. “Looking for something fun to do around the city this November? Check out this top 5 list of happening events in Montreal.” Facebook, November 3, 2017. https://www.facebook.com/ConcordiaUniversity/
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(Concordia University 2017)
R: 	

Concordia University. 2017. “Looking for something fun to do around the city this November? Check out this top 5 list of happening events in Montreal.” Facebook, November 3, 2017. https://www.facebook.com/ConcordiaUniversity/
Back to top
Generative AI (eg., ChatGPT)

If you use text or other media generated by an AI tool, you should include a footnote or parenthetical note explaining this in your text. However, you do not need to include the citation in your bibliography or reference list.
Notes & Bibliography
N: 	1. Text generated by ChatGPT, June 28, 2023, OpenAI, https://chat.openai.com/chat.
Author-date (Text and Reference)
T: 	(ChatGPT, June 28, 2023)

The Chicago Manual of Style Online FAQ on generative AI has more information.

Note: Methods of citing materials generated by artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT are rapidly changing. Check with your course instructor or thesis supervisor before using or citing material generated by AI tools. You should also check whether the tool you’re using has terms of use or guidelines on how to credit use of the tool (for example, from OpenAI).

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/chicago.php

title: SBL citation style
description:  Introduction

*Please note most examples come directly from the SBL handbook of style.

The Society of Biblical Literature Handbook of Style functions as a supplement of The Chicago Manual of Style (CMS), "except in cases when the field very consciously and authoritatively adopts a different standard." (The SBL Handbook of Style,1.1, p. 1). In other words, if the desired format is not included in the SBL Handbook of Style, please consult The Chicago Manual of Style.

The SBL Handbook of Style is mostly used for in citing ancient Near Eastern, Biblical, and early Christian studies.

These guidelines follow the SBL Handbook of Style, 2nd edition (2014). For more information on the additions and rule changes made into the second edition of SBL, consult this webpage.
Back to top
Book with a single author

SBL reference - 6.2.1

First footnote

15. Charles H. Talbert, Reading John: A Literary and Theological Commentary on the Fourth Gospel and the Johannine Epistles (New York: Crossroad, 1992), 127.

8. Jean-Jacques Lavoie, La pensée du Qohélet: étude exégétique et intertextuelle (Saint-Laurent, Québec: Fides, 1992), 134.

Subsequent footnote

19. Talbert, Reading John, 22.

34. Lavoie, La pensée du Qohélet, 134.

Bibliography

Talbert, Charles H. Reading John: A Literary and Theological Commentary on the Fourth Gospel and the Johannine Epistles. New York: Crossroad, 1992.

Lavoie, Jean-Jacques.La pensée du Qohélet: étude exégétique et intertextuelle. Saint-Laurent, Québec: Fides, 1992.

*The numbers suggested for the footnotes are random examples, only meant to show progression. Your footnotes should start at 1 and grow subsequently.
Back to top
Book with two or three authors

SBL reference - 6.2.2

First footnote

4. James M. Robinson and Helmut Koester, Trajectories through Early Christianity (Philadelphia: Fortress, 1971), 237.

Subsequent footnote

12. Robinson and Koester, Trajectories through Early Christianity, 23.

Bibliography

Robinson, James M., and Helmut Koester. Trajectories through Early Christianity. Philadelphia: Fortress, 1971.

Back to top
Book with more than three authors

SBL reference - 6.2.3

First footnote

7. Bernard Brandon Scott et al., Reading New Testament Greek (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson, 1993), 53.

Subsequent footnote

9. Scott et al., Reading New Testament Greek, 42.

Bibliography

Scott, Bernard Brandon, Margaret Dean, Kristen Sparks, and Frances LaZar. Reading New Testament Greek. Peabody, MA: Hendrickson, 1993.

Back to top
Book with no author

SBL reference - 14.79 Chicago Manual of Style

First footnote

1. New York Public Library American History Desk Reference (New York: Macmillan, 1997), 87.

18. The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, 4th ed. (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 2000), 6.

Subsequent footnote

2. New York Public Library, 87.

19. American Heritage Dictionary, 6.

Bibliography

New York Public Library American History Desk Reference. New York: Macmillan, 1997.

The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language. 4th ed. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 2000.

Back to top
Tranlated book

SBL reference - 6.2.4

First footnote

14. Wilhelm Egger, How to Read the New Testament: An Introduction to Linguistic and Historical-Critical Methodology, trans. Peter Heinegg (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson, 1996), 28.

12. Claudio Moreschini and Enrico Norelli, Early Christian Greek and Latin literature: A Literary History, trans. Matthew J. O'Connell (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson, 2005), 34.

Subsequent footnote

18. Egger, How to Read, 291.

20. Moreschini and Norelli, Early Christian Greek, 55.

Bibliography

Egger, Wilhelm. How to Read the New Testament: An Introduction to Linguistic and Historical-Critical Methodology. Translated by Peter Heinegg. Peabody, MA: Hendrickson, 1996.

Moreschini, Claudio and Enrico Norelli. Early Christian Greek and Latin literature: A Literary History. Translated by Matthew J. O'Connell. Peabody, MA: Hendrickson, 2005.

Back to top
Book with one editor

SBL reference - 6.2.6

First footnote

5. Jeffrey H. Tigay, ed., Empirical Models for Biblical Criticism (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1985), 35.

23. Vincent W. Lloyd, ed., Race and Political Theology (Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2012), 59.

Subsequent footnote

9. Tigay, Empirical Models, 38.

27. Lloyd, Race and Political, 67.

Bibliography

Tigay, Jeffrey H., ed. Empirical Models for Biblical Criticism. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1985.

Lloyd, Vincent W., ed. Race and Political Theology. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2012.

Back to top
Book with two or three editors

SBL reference - 6.2.7

First footnote

44. John Kaltner and Steven L. McKenzie, eds., Beyond Babel: A Handbook for Biblical Hebrew and Related Languages, RBS 42 (Atlanta: Society of Biblical Literature, 2002), xii.

8. William J. Abraham and Frederick D. Aquino, eds., The Oxford Handbook of the Epistemology of Theology, 1st ed. (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017), 24.

20. Katharine J. Dell and Paul M. Joyce, eds., Biblical Interpretation and Method: Essays in Honour of John Barton, 1st ed. (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2013), 45.

Subsequent footnote

47. Kaltner and McKenzie, viii.

13. Abraham and Aquino, Oxford Handbook, 24.

22. Dell and Joyce, Biblical Interpretation, 45.

Bibliography

Kaltner, John, and Steven L. McKenzie, eds. Beyond Babel: A Handbook for Biblical Hebrew and Related Languages. RBS 42. Atlanta: Society of Biblical Literature, 2002.

Abraham, William J., and Frederick D. Aquino, eds. The Oxford Handbook of the Epistemology of Theology. 1st ed. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017.

Dell, Katharine J., and Paul M. Joyce, eds. Biblical Interpretation and Method: Essays in Honour of John Barton. 1st ed. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2013.

Back to top
Book with four or more editors

SBL reference - 6.2.8

First footnote

4. John F. Oates et al., eds., Checklist of Editions of Greek and Latin Papyri, Ostraca, and Tablets, 5th ed., BASPSup 9 (Oakville, CT: American Society of Papyrologists, 2001), 10.

17. Maria Clara Bingemer, Literature and Theology (London: SCM Press, 2017), 23.

Subsequent footnote

8. Oates et al., Checklist of Editions, 15.

22. Bingemer, Literature and Theology, 64.

Bibliography

Oates, John F., William H. Willis, Roger S. Bagnall, and Klaas A. Worp, eds. Checklist of Editions of Greek and Latin Papyri, Ostraca, and Tablets. 5th ed. BASPSup 9. Oakville, CT: American Society of Papyrologists, 2001.

Bingemer, Maria Clara, Solange Lefebvre, Erik Borgman, and Mile Babić, eds. Literature and Theology. London: SCM Press, 2017.

Back to top
Book with both author and editor

SBL reference - 6.2.9

First footnote

45. Edward Schillebeeckx, The Schillebeeckx Reader, ed. Robert J. Schreiter (Edinburgh: T&T Clark, 1986), 20.

3. Kenneth Morris Hamilton, The Doctrine of Humanity in the Theology of Reinhold Niebuhr, ed. Jane Barter Moulaison (Waterloo, ON: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2013), 23.

Subsequent footnote

58. Schillebeeckx, Schillebeeckx Reader, 43.

12. Hamilton, Doctrine of Humanity, 20.

Bibliography

12. Hamilton, Doctrine of Humanity, 20. Schillebeeckx, Edward. The Schillebeeckx Reader. Edited by Robert J. Schreiter. Edinburgh: T&T Clark, 1986.

Hamilton, Kenneth Morris. The Doctrine of Humanity in the Theology of Reinhold Niebuhr. Edited by Jane Barter Moulaison. Waterloo, ON: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2013.

Back to top
Book with author, editor, and translator

SBL reference - 6.2.10

First footnote

3. Friedrich Blass and Albert Debrunner, Grammatica del greco del Nuovo Testamento, ed. Friedrich Rehkopf, trans. Giordana Pisi (Brescia: Paideia, 1982), 40.

6. John Duns Scotus, Selected Writings on Ethics, ed. Thomas Williams, trans. Thomas Williams, 1st ed. (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017), 34.

Subsequent footnote

9. Friedrich and Albert, Grammatica del greco, 98.

21. Scotus, Selected Writings, 67.

Bibliography

Blass, Friedrich, and Albert Debrunner. Grammatica del greco del Nuovo Testamento. Edited by Friedrich Rehkopf. Translated by Giordana Pisi. Brescia: Paideia, 1982.

Scotus, John Duns. Selected Writings on Ethics. Edited by Thomas Williams. Translated by Thomas Williams. 1st ed. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017.

Back to top
Chapter in an edited volume

SBL reference - 6.2.12

First footnote

3. Harold W. Attridge, “Jewish Historiography,” in Early Judaism and Its Modern Interpreters, ed. Robert A. Kraft and George W. E. Nickelsburg (Philadelphia: Fortress; Atlanta: Scholars Press, 1986), 313.

7. Pamela D. H. Cochran, “Scripture, Feminism, and Sexuality,” in Christian Theologies of Scripture: A Comparative Introduction, ed. Justin S. Holcomb (New York City: New York University Press, 2006), 268.

Subsequent footnote

6. Attridge, “Jewish Historiography,” 314–15.

11. Cochran, “Scripture, Feminism,” 270.

Bibliography

Attridge, Harold A. “Jewish Historiography.” Pages 311–43 in Early Judaism and Its Modern Interpreters. Edited by Robert A. Kraft and George W. E. Nickelsburg. Philadelphia: Fortress; Atlanta: Scholars Press, 1986.

Cochran, Pamela D. H. “Scripture, Feminism, and Sexuality.” Pages 261–81 in Christian Theologies of Scripture: A Comparative Introduction. Edited by Justin S. Holcomb. New York City: New York University Press, 2006.

Back to top
Titled volume in a multivolume work

SBL reference - 6.2.21

First footnote

5. Bruce W. Winter and Andrew D. Clarke, eds., The Book of Acts in Its Ancient Literary Setting, vol. 1 of The Book of Acts in Its First Century Setting, ed. Bruce W. Winter (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1993), 25.

Subsequent footnote

16. Winter and Clarke, Book of Acts, 25.

Bibliography

Winter, Bruce W., and Andrew D. Clarke, eds. The Book of Acts in Its Ancient Literary Setting. Vol. 1 of The Book of Acts in Its First Century Setting. Edited by Bruce W. Winter. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1993.

Back to top
Work in a series

SBL reference - 6.2.24

First footnote

12. Otfried Hofius, Paulusstudien, WUNT 51 (Tübingen: Mohr Siebeck, 1989), 122.

7. Trent C. Butler, Judges, WBC 8 (Nashville: Thomas Nelson, 2009), 34.

8. Douglas J. Moo, The Epistle to the Romans, NICNT (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1996), 106.

Subsequent footnote

14. Hofius, Paulusstudien, 124.

10. Butler, Judges, 55.

13. Moo, Romans, 110.

Bibliography

Hofius, Otfried. Paulusstudien. WUNT 51. Tübingen: Mohr Siebeck, 1989.

Butler, Trent C. Judges. WBC 8. Nashville: Thomas Nelson, 2009.

Moo, Douglas J. The Epistle to the Romans. NICNT. Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1996.

Back to top
Electronic book

SBL reference - 6.2.25

First footnote

53. Ann E. Killebrew and Margreet Steiner, eds., The Oxford Handbook of the Archaeology of the Levant: c. 8000–332 BCE (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014), 56, doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199212972.001.0001.

2. Allen Speight and Michael Zank, eds., Politics, Religion and Political Theology, vol. 6 (Springer, 2017), 54, https://oi.uchicago.edu/pdf/as19.pdf.

Subsequent footnote

55. Killebrew and Steiner, Archaeology of the Levant, 23.

5. Speight and Zank, Politics, Religion, 56.

Bibliography

Killebrew, Ann E. and Margreet Steiner, eds. The Oxford Handbook of the Archaeology of the Levant: c. 8000–332 BCE. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199212972.001.0001.

Speight, Allen, and Michael Zank, eds. Politics, Religion and Political Theology. Vol. 6. Springer, 2017. https://oi.uchicago.edu/pdf/as19.pdf.

"When citing an online version of a book, include the DOI. In the absence of a DOI, include the URL in the citation" (6.2.25, p. 91).
Back to top
Journal article

SBL reference - 6.3.1

First footnote

7. Blake Leyerle, “John Chrysostom on the Gaze,” JECS 1 (1993): 164.

5. Koog-Pyoung Hong, “Synchrony and Diachrony in Contemporary Biblical Interpretation,” CBQ 75, no. 3 (2013): 534.

6. Richard B. Steele, "Christian Virtue and Ministry to Persons with Disabilities," JRDH 1 (2010): 36.

Subsequent footnote

23. Leyerle, “John Chrysostom,” 161.

12. Hong, “Synchrony and Diachrony,” 533.

17. Steele, "Christian Virtue," 37.

Bibliography

Leyerle, Blake. “John Chrysostom on the Gaze.” JECS 1 (1993): 159–74.

Hong, Koog-Pyoung. “Synchrony and Diachrony in Contemporary Biblical Interpretation.” CBL 75, no. 3 (2013): 521–539.

Steele, Richard B. "Christian Virtue and Ministry to Persons with Disabilities." JRDH 1 (2010): 28–46.

"For articles written by more than one author, follow the examples above in §6.2.2. It is unnecessary to include the issue number unless the journal volume is not paginated consecutively, see §6.3.9" (6.3, p. 92).
Back to top
Article in an encyclopedia or dictionary

SBL reference - 6.3.6

First footnote

33. Krister Stendahl, “Biblical Theology, Contemporary,” IDB 1:432.

5. Stanley D. Walters, “Jacob Narrative,” ABD 3:599.

Subsequent footnote

36. Stendahl, “Biblical Theology,” 1:419.

13. Walters, “Jacob Narrative,” 3:599.

Bibliography

Stendahl, Krister. “Biblical Theology, Contemporary.” IDB 1:418–32.

Walters, Stanley D. “Jacob Narrative.” Pages 359–609 in vol. 3 of The Anchor Bible Dictionary. Edited by David Noel Freedman. 6 vols. New York, NY: Doubleday, 1992.

Back to top
Electronic journal article

SBL reference - 6.3.10

First footnote

43. Carl P. E. Springer, “Of Roosters and Repetitio: Ambrose’s Aeterne rerum conditor,” VC 68 (2014): 155, doi:10.1163/15700720-12341158.

8. Charles Truehart, “Welcome to the Next Church,” Atlantic Monthly 278 (August 1996): 38, https://www.theatlantic.com/past/docs/issues/96aug/nxtchrch/nxtchrch.html.

6. Sarit Kattan Gribetz, “The Festival of Every Day: Philo and Seneca on Quotidian Time,” HTR 111 (2018): 377 doi:10.1017/S0017816018000159.

9. Mary Carlson, “Making the Invisible Visible: Inviting Persons with Disabilities into the Life of the Church,” Cambridge Core Blog 45 (2018): 49, https://blog.journals.cambridge.org/2018/05/14/making-the-invisible-visible-inviting-persons-with-disabilities-into-the-life-of-the-church.

Subsequent footnote

45. Springer, “Of Roosters and Repetitio,” 158.

12. Truehart, “Next Church,” 37.

15. Gribetz, “The Festival of Every Day,” 371.

17. Mary. “Making the Invisible Visible,” 46.

Bibliography

Springer, Carl P. E. “Of Roosters and Repetitio: Ambrose’s Aeterne rerum conditor.” VC 68 (2014): 155–77. doi:10.1163/15700720-12341158.

Truehart, Charles. “Welcome to the Next Church.” Atlantic Monthly 278 (August 1996): 37–58. https://www.theatlantic.com/past/docs/issues/96aug/nxtchrch/nxtchrch.html.

Gribetz, Sarit Kattan. “The Festival of Every Day: Philo and Seneca on Quotidian Time.” HTR 111 (2018): 357–81. doi:10.1017/S0017816018000159.

Carlson, Mary. “Making the Invisible Visible: Inviting Persons with Disabilities into the Life of the Church.” Cambridge Core Blog 45 (2018): 46–73. https://blog.journals.cambridge.org/2018/05/14/making-the-invisible-visible-inviting-persons-with-disabilities-into-the-life-of-the-church.

"Electronic journal article citations should include a DOI (preferred) or a URL. The URL must resolve directly to the page on which the article appears" (6.3.10, p. 95).
Back to top
Bible commentaries

SBL reference - 6.4.9

First footnote

6. Robert W. Wall and Richard B. Steele, 1 and 2 Timothy and Titus, THNTC (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2012), 83.

8. Douglas J. Moo, The Epistle to the Romans, NICNT (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1996), 106.

Subsequent footnote

17. Wall and Steele, 1 and 2 Timothy and Titus, 421.

13. Moo, Romans, 110.

Bibliography

Wall, Robert W., and Richard B. Steele. 1 and 2 Timothy and Titus. THNTC. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2012.

Moo, Douglas J. The Epistle to the Romans. NICNT. Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1996.

"Commentaries are normally cited just as any other book, with the commentary series name being the only significant addition. Since editors of commentary series usually acquire rather than edit, the names of general editors need not be included in bibliographic or note references" (6.4.9, p. 102).
Back to top
Single volume of a multivolume commentary

SBL reference - 6.4.10, 6.2.21-23

First footnote

6. Robert W. Wall, The Acts of the Apostles: Introduction, Commentary, and Reflections, in NIB 10, ed. Leander E. Keck (Nashville: Abingdon, 2002), 75.

8. Peter T. O’Brien, Colossians, Philemon, in WBC 44 (Dallas, TX: Word Books, 1982), 20.

Subsequent footnote

17. Wall, The Acts of the Apostles, 81.

28. O’Brien, Colossians, 20.

Bibliography

Wall, Robert W. The Acts of the Apostles: Introduction, Commentary, and Reflections. Pages 1–368 in vol. 8 of NIB. Edited by Leander E. Keck. Nashville: Abingdon, 2002.

O’Brien, Peter T. Colossians, Philemon. Pages 1–384 in vol. 44 of WBC. Dallas, TX: Word Books, 1982.

Back to top
Dissertation or thesis

SBL reference - 6.3.5

First footnote

21. Lee E. Klosinski, “Meals in Mark” (PhD diss., The Claremont Graduate School, 1988), 22.

3. Ablorh, Sowah, “Deliverance Practice In Contemporary Ghanaian Neo-Prophetic Churches” (MA diss., Concordia University, 2018), 5.

Subsequent footnote

26. Klosinski, “Meals in Mark,” 23.

12. Sowah, “Deliverance Practice,” 34.

Bibliography

Klosinski, Lee. E. “Meals in Mark.” PhD diss., The Claremont Graduate School, 1988.

Ablorh, Sowah. “Deliverance Practice In Contemporary Ghanaian Neo-Prophetic Churches.” MA diss., Concordia University, 2018.

Back to top
Paper presented at a professional society

SBL reference - 6.3.8

First footnote

31. Susan Niditch, “Oral Culture and Written Documents” (paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the New England Region of the SBL, Worcester, MA, 25 March 1994), 17.

6. Richard B. Steele,"Teaching Christian Prison Literature in Prison" (paper presented at the Church History Section of the Pacific Northwest Regional Meeting of the AAR/SBL, Portland, OR, 11 May 2012), 3.

Subsequent footnote

35. Niditch, “Oral Culture,” 14.

17. Steele, "Teaching Christian Prison Literature," 7.

Bibliography

Niditch, Susan. “Oral Culture and Written Documents.” Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the New England Region of the SBL. Worcester, MA, 25 March 1994.

Steele, Richard B. "Teaching Christian Prison Literature in Prison." Paper presented at the Church History Section of the Pacific Northwest Regional Meeting of the AAR/SBL, Portland, OR, 11 May 2012.

Back to top
Blog entry

SBL reference - 6.4.15

First footnote

10. “The One Hundred Most Important Cuneiform Objects,” cdli:wiki, https://cdli.ox.ac.uk/wiki/doku.php?id=the_one_hundred_most_important_cuneiform_objects.

3. Mark Goodacre, “Jesus’ Wife Fragment: Another Round-Up,” NT Blog, 9 May 2014, https://ntweblog.blogspot.com.

Subsequent footnote

10. “Cuneiform Objects”

9. Goodacre, “Jesus’ Wife”

Bibliography

N/A

Goodacre, Mark. "Jesus' Wife Fragment: Another Round-Up." NT Blog. 9 May 2014. https://ntweblog.blogspot.com.

"Per CMS §14.246, citations of blog entries should include the author of the entry; the name of the entry, in quotation marks; the title or description of the blog; the date; and a URL" (6.4.15, p. 104). Blog entries, however, may be omitted from the bibliography.
Back to top
Website

SBL reference - 6.4.15

First footnote

7. Joel Green, “Bible, Theology and Theological Interpretation,” SBL Forum. https://www.sbl-site.org/Article.aspx?ArticleId=308.

8. "Christology Study Area," monachos.net, https://www.monachos.net/content/patristics/patristicstudies/35-themes/241-christology.

Subsequent footnote

9. Green, “Bible, Theology.”

13. "Christology Study Area."

Bibliography

Green, Joel B. “Bible, Theology and Theological Interpretation.” SBL Forum. https://www.sbl-site.org/Article.aspx?ArticleId=308.

"Christology Study Area." monachos.net. https://www.monachos.net/content/patristics/patristicstudies/35-themes/241-christology.

Back to top
Biblical citations

Student supplement for The SBL Handbook of Style, 1.2

To cite modern Bible versions, do not add information in either footnotes or bibliography, instead include only an in-text citation.

When giving a chapter and verse of a book of the Bible in-text, do not write out the words "chapter” or "verse.” Instead, include the abbreviation of the book followed by the Arabic numeral of the chapter, a colon, and the Arabic numeral of the verse. When referring to consecutive verses, put an en dash between the first and last verse numbers. A semicolon should separate references to subsequent chapters or books. (Student Supplement for The SBL Handbook of Style, 1.2, p. 3)
Example

    Gen 3:4.
    Gen 1:1-2:3; 3; 4:1, 6; Exod 4:5-8; 7.

The names of biblical books, translations, and the Bible should not be underlined or italicized. When quoting the Bible, you must specify the Bible translation you are using either by including the full name of the Bible translation in the body of the sentence in which the quote appears or by including the abbreviation for the translation in a parenthetical reference at the end of the Sentence. If you do not state the chapter and verse of the biblical passage you are citing and the name of the translation in the body of the sentence, this information should appear in parentheses at the end of the sentence with the book of the Bible, chapter, and verse followed by the abbreviation for the translation. (Student Supplement for The SBL Handbook of Style, 1.2, p. 4)
Example

    The Torah opens with the words, “When God began to create” (Gen 1:1 CEB).
    Genesis 1:26 portrays God proclaiming, “Let us make humankind in our image” (NRSV).
    The King James Version of Gen 1:26 states, “Let us make man in our image.”

For other citation formats, as well as additional examples, please consult the SBL Handbook of Style. If a desired format is not listed, please consult the Chicago Manual of Style.
Back to top
Additional notes
Author-date citations: 6.5

"Authors writing in the social sciences may elect to use an author-date form of citation rather than the more traditional note-based system described above. The primary purpose of author-date style is to eliminate cumbersome notes while still facilitating source references that do not interrupt the flow of the main text to a major degree" (6.5, p. 104). For more information on author-date citations, see 6.5, on p. 104–108.
Capitalization of titles in English: 6.1.3.3

"In English titles, all words should be capitalized except articles, coordinating conjunctions, and prepositions (the first and last words in the title or subtitle are, however, capitalized regardless of their part of speech)" (6.1.3.3, p. 73).
Capitalization of titles not in English: 6.1.3.4

"For titles in languages other than English, the general rule is to capitalize only the first word of the title or subtitle and any words that would be capitalized in a normal sentence. For most languages, only proper nouns (but not proper adjectives) are capitalized" (6.1.3.4, p. 73).
Date: 6.1.4.5

"The use of n.d. (no date) in place of the year in the publication details should be avoided. In the case of unpublished manuscripts, use the date of the version consulted or the last modified date in the case of electronic files" (6.1.4.5, p. 83).
Ibid.

Ibid. does not appear in the Index to the SBL Handbook, yet Chicago style allows for it. See the Chicago Manual of Style, 14.29, on p. 669.
Quotation marks: 4.1.2

"SBL practice, in keeping with long-standing American style and CMS, calls for placing quotation marks, whether double or single, outside periods and commas" (4.1.2, p. 14).
Abbreviations: 8.1

The SBL Handbook of Style offers an extensive lists of abbreviations for journals, series, and other standard reference works. If a work is included in these lists, use the abbreviation listed. Note that SBL italicizes abbreviations of journal titles (e.g., JBL) but does not italicize the abbreviations of series (e.g., JSOTSup) (8.4, p. 171).
Example

    Footnotes: JBL, JSOTSup
    Bibliography: Journal of Biblical Literature, Journal for the Study of the Old Testament Supplement Series

If a work is not included in the SBL abbreviation lists, use complete titles throughout or include a list of additional abbreviations on a separate page at the beginning of the paper (after the title page and before the main text).
Back to top
Generative AI (eg., ChatGPT)

There is currently no official stylistic recommendations from the SBL Handbook of Style for referencing AI-generated content. If you have been asked to cite material generated by artificial intelligence for a class assignment, you can use the format suggested by the Chicago Manual of Style.
Example

    Text generated by ChatGPT, June 28, 2023, OpenAI, https://chat.openai.com/chat.


The Chicago Manual of Style Online FAQ on generative AI has more information.

Note: Methods of citing materials generated by artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT are rapidly changing. Check with your course instructor or thesis supervisor before using or citing material generated by AI tools. You should also check whether the tool you’re using has terms of use or guidelines on how to credit use of the tool (for example, from OpenAI).
link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/sbl.php

title: IEEE style guide
description:  Introduction

This guide provides some basic models and examples of citations based primarily on the IEEE Reference Guide, which is part of the IEEE Editorial Style Manual.

IEEE requires any citation and style issues not covered by its own style manual to be addressed using the Chicago Manual of Style. Submitting an article to an IEEE publication may require using that publication's style, which occasionally varies from the general IEEE style. Learn more from the IEEE Author Center.
Back to top
General Guidelines
In-text citation

    In-text citations are shown as numbers within square brackets, for example “According to [2]…”, “As demonstrated in [3]–[5]…”.
    The numbers increase sequentially with each additional source that you cite.
    If you cite the same source more than once, use the same number rather than creating a new reference. Remember that if you move text with a citation after writing your document, you must resequence your references to correspond.
    Do not say “in reference [1] …”; rather, the text should be written to read simply, “in [3] …”.
    The author’s name generally should not be included in a text reference with a number (i.e., “In Patel [1]”) and should be changed to “in [3]” except in such cases where the author’s name is integral to the understanding of the sentence (e.g., “Patel [3] reduced calculated time …”).

Reference list

    Reference numbers are aligned to the left margin and form a column of their own.
    Use "et al." to signify that a document has more than six authors.
    All references, except those ending with URLs, will end with a period, including those with a DOI.
    Check the IEEE Editorial Style Manual for official abbreviations. Many commonly used terms as well as specific IEEE journals should be abbreviated in the references.

An example
A short paragraph with in-text citations and a corresponding reference list in IEEE citation style
Back to top
Book
Model for a book in print

    J. K. Author, “Title of chapter in the book,” in Title of Book, xth ed. City of Publisher, State, Country: Abbrev. of Publisher, year, ch. x, sec. x, pp. xxx–xxx.

Model for an electronic book

    J. K. Author, “Title of chapter in the book,” in Title of Book, xth ed. City of Publisher, State, Country: Abbrev. of Publisher, year, ch. x, sec. x, pp. xxx–xxx. [Online]. Available: site/path/file

Examples
One author

    N. Shinohara, Wireless Power Transfer via Radiowaves. London : Hoboken, NJ, USA: ISTE; Wiley, 2014

Two authors

    A. Hunt and D. Thomas, The Pragmatic Programmer: From Journeyman to Master. Reading, Mass: Addison-Wesley, 2000.

One author (ebook)

    A. Moreno-Munoz, Ed., Large Scale Grid Integration of Renewable Energy Sources. Institution of Engineering and Technology, 2017 [Online]. Available: https://digital-library.theiet.org/content/books/po/pbpo098e.

Other Cases

Not every reference will include the same types of information. For example, the books referenced above do not call out specific chapters. In the following, [1] has three editors rather than a single author, whereas [2] represents a citation from a chapter in this book.

    D. P. Michelfelder, N. McCarthy, and D. E. Goldberg, Eds., Philosophy and Engineering: Reflections on Practice, Principles and Process. Springer, Dordrecht, 2013 [Online]. Available: https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-94-007-7762-0
    A. Chilvers and S. Bell, “Ove Arup: Theoretical and moral positions in practice and the origins of an engineering firm,” in Philosophy and Engineering: Reflections on Practice, Principles and Process, Springer, Dordrecht, 2013, pp. 51–63. [Online]. Available: https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-94-007-7762-0_5

Back to top
Conference proceedings
Model for a paper presented at a conference

    J. K. Author, “Title of paper,” presented at the abbrev. Name of Conf., City of Conf., Abbrev. State, year, pp. xxx–xxx.

Model for a conference paper presented via online event

    J. K. Author. Title. presented at abbrev. Conference title. [Medium]. Available: site/path/file

Examples
Conference papers

    V. S. Bouchet, E. Torlaschi, R. Laprise, and J. C. McConnell, “Summertime climatology of ozone with a regional climate model,” in Proceedings of the 1997 Air & Waste Management Association’s 90th Annual Meeting & Exhibition, Toronto, Canada, 1997.
    R. Zhou et al., “Modeling the impact of spatial resolutions on perceptual quality of immersive image/video,” in 2016 International Conference on 3D Imaging (IC3D), 2016, pp. 1–6 [Online]. Available: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7823464/

Back to top
Dataset, table, and graph
Datasets

Due to the various techniques for accessing and storing datasets (research data management guide), the citation rules are not as commonly defined as they are for things like books or journal articles. The IEEE Editorial Style Manual does not explicitly state how to cite data.

The following was adapted from The Chicago Manual of Style's guidance in "14.257: Citing data from a scientific database." The manual recommends that the citation include the database's name and some description of the record being cited (a data marker or accession number). It should also include the date that you accessed it and a URL.
Model for data from a scientific database

    DB Name (descriptive phrase [record locator]; accessed date). site/path/file

Example
Dataset

    Laser-Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy (LIBS) dataset for materials for Planetary Exploration (LIBS Dataset [AnorthoMO11 1000AVG]; accessed February 28, 2018). https://open.canada.ca/data/en/dataset/137bdc17-2f46-4d70-98e7-acc46f602e9f

See the DataCite Canada recommendations for additional detail about good practices for citing data. You can also find documentation detailing different data citation use-cases in the guide from The Digital Curation Centre.
Tables

The 17th edition of The Chicago Manual of Style offers some guidance on data in the context of using it in tables (section 3.77 Acknowledging data in source notes to tables). Chicago requires the full source to be cited.

For example, if you use data from a source such as a book or an article to create a table in your document, Chicago requires that you identify that data by writing "Data from [Name of the source]" within a footnote. You must also include that source in your reference list the way you normally would (e.g. if it's an article, format it like an article reference).

IEEE formatting style for footnotes is in section "B. Editing the Body of a Paper" of the IEEE Editorial Style Manual.
Graphs

If you use an image such as a graph from another source, make sure to label it with a caption using the rules under "Text Citation of Figures and Tables" in part "II. Editing Principles," section "B. Editing the Body of a Paper" of the IEEE Editorial Style Manual. The graph may require a reference number or additional source information depending on whether or not it's from an IEEE source.
Back to top
Journal article
Model for an article online

    J. K. Author, “Name of paper,” Abbrev. Title of Periodical, vol. x, no. x, pp. xxx-xxx, Abbrev. Month, year. Accessed: Month, Day, Year. doi: 10.1109.XXX.123456, [Online]. Available: site/path/file

Model for an article in print

    J. K. Author, “Name of paper,” Abbrev. Title of Periodical, vol. x, no. x, pp. xxx-xxx, Abbrev. Month, year.

Examples
Article online

    A. Bozkurt et al., “Toward cyber-enhanced working dogs for search and rescue,” IEEE Intell. Syst., vol. 29, no. 6, pp. 32–9, Nov. 2014. Accessed: Dec, 12, 2017. doi: 10.1109/MIS.2014.77, [Online]. Available: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6914468/

Article in print

    P. Mowforth and I. Bratko, “AI and robotics; flexibility and integration,” Robotica, vol. 5, no. pt 2, pp. 93–98, 1987.

Back to top
Lecture

The IEEE Editorial Style Manual does not explicitely describe how to cite lectures. The following was adapted from the Chicago Manual of Style's guidance in "14.217: Lectures and papers or posters presented at meetings." If lecture notes or recordings are accessible online you can add an electronic resource to the reference.
Model for a lecture or presentation

    J. K. Lecturer, “Title,” Lecture, Title of course, Organization, location, Date.

Model for lecture notes that can be accessed online

    J. K. Lecturer, “Title,” Lecture, Title of course, Organization, location, Date, [Medium]. Available: site/path/file

For recordings, see also the Chicago Manual of Style, section 14.264: Recorded readings, lectures, audiobooks, and the like.
Example
Lecture

    E. Novak, “Essentials of Research Methods,” Lecture, ENCS 6721 Technical Writing and Research Methods for Scientists and Engineers, Concordia University, Montréal, Canada, 2016, [PowerPoint]. https://users.encs.concordia.ca/lecture-imaginary-prof.html

Back to top
Manual

Use the following model for documents such as product or software manuals. To cite a document such as a corporate handbook, use the technical report model.
Model for a manual

    J. K. Author or Organization Name. The software manual title. (Year) [Medium]. Place: Publisher or Organization that produced it. Available: site/path/file, Accessed: Month. Day, Year.

Examples
Product manual

    ST, TN0018 Technical note: Surface mounting guidelines for MEMS sensors in an LGA package. (2017) [Online]. Switzerland: STMicroelectronics NV. Available: https://www.st.com/content/st_com/en/products/mems-and-sensors/accelerometers/ais328dq.html, Accessed: Dec. 13, 2017.

Software manual

    J. H. Weber et al., Getting Started with LibreOffice 5.2. (2017) [Online]. LibreOffice Documentation Team. Available: https://documentation.libreoffice.org/assets/Uploads/Documentation/en/GS5.2/GS52-GettingStartedLO.pdf, Accessed: Dec. 13, 2017.

Note: to cite a printed manual (not an online electronic source) do not include the "Available:" and "Accessed:" portions of the reference.
Back to top
Patent
Model for a patent accessible online

    Name of the invention, by inventor’s name. (year, month day). Country Patent Number [Medium]. Available: site/path/file

Examples
Patent from the Canadian Intellectual Property Office database (online)

    Type composing machine, by J. Mayer and C. A. Albrecht. (1907, March 26) CA 104 300 [Online]. Available: https://www.ic.gc.ca/opic-cipo/cpd/eng/patent/104300/summary.html

Patent from a Google patent search (online)

    System and method for routing communications based on wireless communication link quality, by B. Moon and M. Smith. (2000, December 22) US Patent 6 961 573 [Online]. Available: https://patents.google.com/patent/US6961573B1/en

Back to top
Software
Model for a software application

    A. L. Programmer or Organization Name. The software package. (Year) [Medium]. Place: Publisher. Available: site/path/file, Accessed: Month. Day, Year.

A techique used in some IEEE publications simplifies the reference as follows:

    "Software Application Name", Year.

Examples
Software developed by an organization (downloaded)

    Apache HTTP Server. The Apache Software Foundation, 2017 [Online]. Available: https://http.apache.org/download.cgi#apache24

    "Apache HTTP Server", 2017.

Software developed by a company (from a physical medium)

    MATLAB. Natick, MA: The MathWorks, Inc., 2002 [DVD-ROM].

Back to top
Standard

The IEEE Editorial Style Manual recommends the first model below for standards. The guide also shows alternate examples that are visible in IEEE-published documents.
Model for a standard

    Title of Standard, Standard number, date.

Model for a standard (formatted for more information)

    Title of standard, [Medium] Standard number, Authoring body, location, date. Available: site/path/file

Examples
Standard (print)

    Standard method of test for the evaluation of building energy analysis computer programs, ASHRAE standard 1041-2336 ; 140-2014, 2014.

Standard (online)

    IEEE Standard for Advanced Audio and Video Coding, [Online] Standard IEEE Std 1857-2013, IEEE Standards Association, New York, NY, 2013. Available: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6522104/

Back to top
Technical reports, datasheets, etc.

Technical reports often include detailed research on an organization's own work concerning a problem. These reports are often not published in a traditional sense. Citing technical reports may require identifying additional information from corporate sites.

IEEE also recommends using the following format for documents such as datasheets or corporate handbooks.
Model for a technical report

    J. K. Author, “Title of report,” Abbrev. Name of Co., City of Co., Abbrev. State, Country, Rep. no., vol./issue, year. [Medium]. Available: site/path/file

Examples
Technical report

    F. A. Shen, “Flexible rotor dynamics analysis,” Rockwell International Corp., Canoga Park, CA, 19730022708, Sep. 1973 [Online]. Available: https://ntrs.nasa.gov/search.jsp?R=19730022708

Product datasheet

    Unitron, “uTV 3 Technical Data,” Kitchener, Canada, Datasheet 14-050 027-5875-02, Feb. 2015 [Online]. Available: https://unitron.com/content/dam/unitron-2014/documents/english/moxi-north/datasheet/english-crossproduct-datasheet-utv3.pdf

Note that the author is the name of the company in the datasheet example.
Back to top
Thesis
Model for a thesis or dissertation

    J. K. Author, “Title,” M.S. thesis/Ph.D. dissertation, Abbrev. Dept., Abbrev. Univ., City of Univ., Abbrev. State, year.

Example
Thesis from a Master of Science program

    V. Hayot-Sasson, “Towards easy and efficient processing of ultra-high resolution brain images,” MCompSC. thesis, Dept. of Comput. Sci. & Software Eng., Concordia University, Montréal, Canada, 2017 [Online]. Available: https://spectrum.library.concordia.ca/982970/

Back to top
Unpublished work

IEEE provides the following rule for private communications but in many cases, you can embed the information in the body of your text. For example, "In response to my query, Alexandra Bell sent an e-mail stating that specifications had last been updated in March."
Model for an unpublished document

    J. K. Author, private communication, Abbrev. Month, year.
    J. K. Author, “Title of paper,” unpublished.

Example
E-mail message

    M. Aftahi, private communication, Dec 2016.

Back to top
Web page
Model for a page on a web site

    J. K. Author. "Page Title." Website. Web Address (retrieved Date Accessed).

Example
Web page

    Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec. “The Different Fields of Engineering” Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec. https://www.oiq.qc.ca/en/general-public/the-engineering-profession/the-different-fields-of-engineering (accessed Apr. 20, 2022).

Social media

    Concordia Journalism, “We are proud to announce that Dr. David Secko, Chair and Professor in the Department of Journalism, is a recipient of the President’s Excellence in Teaching Award. Secko was recognized for his development of Projected Futures: Experimental Science Journalism Studies.” Twitter. https://twitter.com/JournalismCU/status/1540063393830371328 (accessed Aug. 19, 2022).

Back to top
Generative AI (eg., ChatGPT)

There is currently no official stylistic recommendations from IEEE for referencing AI-generated content. IEEE requires any citation and style issues not covered by its own style manual to be addressed using the Chicago Manual of Style. If you have been asked to cite material generated by artificial intelligence for a class assignment, you can use the format suggested by the Chicago Manual of Style.
Example

    Text generated by ChatGPT, June 28, 2023, OpenAI, https://chat.openai.com/chat.


Note: Methods of citing materials generated by artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT are rapidly changing. Check with your course instructor or thesis supervisor before using or citing material generated by AI tools. You should also check whether the tool you’re using has terms of use or guidelines on how to credit use of the tool (for example, from OpenAI).

link: https://library.concordia.ca/help/citing/ieee.php

title: Government information citation guides
description: CANADIAN: Government publication citations - General

    Canadian Government Publications: A Citation Guide (McGill Libraries)
    Brief Guide to Citing Canadian Government Documents and Statistics (Queen's University Library)
    How to Cite Statistics Canada Products (StatCan)
    How to Cite Government Publications with examples for Canadian and United Nations materials and more (McMaster University)

CANADIAN: Government publication citations - Specific Styles

    APA Citing Canadian Government Documents (SFU Libraries)
    Chicago Citing Canadian Government Documents (SFU Libraries)
    MLA Citing Canadian Government Documents (SFU Libraries)
    MLA government publications (Concordia University)

CANADIAN: Legal citation

    Legal Citation Legal Research Materials. Primarily Canadian materials including citing Statutes (Queen's University)
    Nahum Gelber Law Library Reference: Citation Styles (McGill University)
    Law - Legal Citation Guide (UBC Libraries)
    Canadian Guide to uniform legal citation = Manuel canadien de la reference juridique McGill Law Journal (print book, Webster Reference collection)

American: Government publications - General citations

    American Memory: Citing historical legislative materials [no HTTPS link available] (Library of Congress)
    The Complete Guide to Citing Government Information Resources: a Manual for Social Science & Business Research(print book, Webster Reference collection)
    Brief Guide to Citing Government Publications(University of Memphis)

American:Legal citations

    Introduction to Basic Legal Citation: Legal Information Institute (Cornell University Law School)

International: Legal Citations

    The Oxford Standard for the Citation of Legal Authorities (University of Oxford)
link: https://library.concordia.ca/find/government/citing.php

title: Concordia University Library, Early Summer Hours (June 10 to August 16, 2024)
Webster Library (SGW campus)
description: Webster Library: Sir George Williams Campus
McConnell Building, LB-2
1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8

Questions? Ask Us!: Webster Library, LB-2
Loans & Returns: Webster Library, LB-220

Building Hours:
Monday to Thursday: 9 am - 10 pm
Friday: 9 am - 9 pm
Saturday & Sunday: 10 am - 9 pm
Loans Desk:
Monday to Thursday: 9 am - 6 pm
Friday: 9 am - 1 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Ask Us! Desk:
Monday to Thursday: 9 am - 5 pm
Friday: 9 am - 1 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Technology Sandbox:
Monday to Thursday: 10 am - 6 pm
Friday: 10 am - 1 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
link: https://library.concordia.ca/locations/index.php

title: Concordia University Library, Early Summer Hours (June 10 to August 16, 2024) Vanier Library (Loyola campus)
description: Building Hours:
Monday to Thursday: 9 am - 10 pm
Friday: 9 am - 9 pm
Saturday & Sunday: 10 am - 9 pm
Circulation Desk:
Monday to Thursday: 9 am - 6 pm
Friday: 9 am - 1 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Reference Desk:
Monday to Thursday: 9 am - 5 pm
Friday: 9 am - 1 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Special Collections and Archives:
Monday to Thursday: 9:30 am - 4:30 pm
Friday: 9:30 am - 1 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Online Chat Service:

Service Hours:
Monday to Thursday: 10 am - 5 pm
Friday: 10 am - 1 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Exceptions:
Final Exams (June 20-23 and June 25-26): Webster and Vanier libraries open 24 hours.
Saint-Jean-Baptiste Day (June 24): Closed.
Canada Day (July 1): Closed.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/locations/index.php

title: Concordia University Library: Late Summer Hours (August 17 to September 2, 2024) 
Webster Library (SGW campus)
description: Building Hours:
Monday to Thursday: 9 am - 10 pm
Friday: 9 am - 9 pm
Saturday & Sunday: 10 am - 9 pm
Loans Desk:
Monday to Friday: 9 am - 5 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Ask Us! Desk:
Monday to Friday: 9 am - 5 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Technology Sandbox:
Monday to Friday: 10 am - 5 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Closed August 12-25
Grey Nuns Reading Room & Group Study Rooms (SGW campus):
Building Hours: Closed
link: https://library.concordia.ca/locations/index.php

title: Concordia University Library: Late Summer Hours (August 17 to September 2, 2024)
Vanier Library (Loyola campus)

description: Building Hours:
Monday to Thursday: 9 am - 10 pm
Friday: 9 am - 9 pm
Saturday & Sunday: 10 am - 9 pm
Circulation Desk:
Monday to Friday: 9 am - 5 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Reference Desk:
Monday to Friday: 9 am - 5 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Special Collections and Archives:
Monday to Friday: 9:30 am - 4:30 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Online Chat Service:

Service Hours:
Monday to Friday: 9 am - 5 pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed
Exceptions:

Technology Sandbox: Closed August 12-25.
Labour Day (September 2): Closed. Spaces close on Sunday, September 1 at 9 pm and reopen on Tuesday, September 3 at 9 am.






link: https://library.concordia.ca/locations/index.php

title: Grey Nuns Reading Room & Group Study Rooms
description: Current student/faculty/staff Concordia ID cards are required to access the space; study rooms require booking.

Main Entrance: Sir George Williams Campus
Grey Nuns Building, A Wing (GN)
1190 Guy St.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
Accessible Entrance
See Wheelchair access to the Grey Nuns Reading Room and Group Study Rooms

Contact Information: 514-848-2424 ext. 7197.
Please note that the Grey Nuns Reading Room is closed for the summer. The location will reopen in the Fall 2024 semester.

Silent Study Space

Just a five-minute walk from the Webster Library, the Grey Nuns Reading Room is situated in the beautiful former Grey Nuns chapel of the Invention of the Holy Cross.

The Reading Room is one of the Library's silent study spaces and provides seating for 192 students, with a strict no-talking rule in place. It's an ideal spot to study for an exam, review notes for an upcoming class or write your thesis.

This historic space that was built over 150 years ago and is filled with beautiful architectural details, religious furniture, glassworks and artworks. Several measures are in place to preserve this classified heritage space. It is why visitors must remove their footwear to protect the hardwood floors.

Group Study Rooms

There are 14 group study rooms on the first floor of the Grey Nuns building that can be reserved.

Eleven of these group study rooms are equipped with digital collaboration technology including a 46” LCD screen with wired and wireless connections and a wide-angle USB camera. Read more about the group study room technology in the Grey Nuns building.


Wheelchair access to the Grey Nuns Reading Room and Group Study Rooms

Please call Security at 514-848-3717 a few minutes before your anticipated arrival to have an agent meet you.

Proceed through the Grey Nuns building archway at 1190 Guy St. south of the Faubourg Building. Please use the intercom on the gate to communicate with Security. Inform them that you need to use the wheelchair entrance to enter the Grey Nuns library area.

To leave the Grey Nuns library area present yourself to the Reading Room Monitor who will communicate with Security to assist you to exit.

link: https://library.concordia.ca/locations/grey-nuns.php

title: Study Spaces
description: The Library provides a variety of study spaces at Webster Library, Vanier Library and in the Grey Nuns Building including spaces for silent study, a keyboard-free zero noise room, bookable group study rooms, and various collaborative spaces for quiet group work.

The Library is a quiet space on campus. In collaborative spaces, speaking softly is permitted. No talking, whispering or noise is permitted in areas designated as silent study spaces.

Food is not permitted in the Library. Beverages are only permitted if in spill-proof containers.
22 learning spaces

Webster Library has 22 different learning spaces designed to fit your needs.
	

Silent study spaces include closed reading rooms, computer classrooms, and designated areas within the Library indicated by signage. No talking or conversation is permitted. Silence is required in these spaces at all times.
Webster Library: 
LB-2 Reading Rooms (Ireland and Belgium)
LB-3 Reading Rooms (France and India)
LB-4 Reading Rooms (Mexico, China and Denmark)
LB-5 Reading Rooms (Nepal, Argentina and Spain)
LB-5 Dissertation Writers' Rooms (Iceland, Venezuela and Mali)
Vanier Library: VL-1 and VL-2
Grey Nuns: Reading Room


Collaborative spaces include bookable group study rooms and designated areas within the Library indicated by signage. Speaking softly is allowed in collaborative areas, but not loud talking. Long cellphone conversations should be done outside of the Library.
Webster Library: Unenclosed areas (i.e., spaces between Reading Rooms, tables along the side of the atrium, tables on LB-3 and LB-4 along MacKay St.
Group study rooms and presentation practice rooms
Vanier Library: VL-3
All group study rooms
Grey Nuns: Group study rooms
The Friends of the Library Room located in LB-361 is a zero-noise room that has been set aside to provide a peaceful oasis for quiet reflection. Absolute silence is required in the zero-noise room. No keyboarding or talking is permitted.
Areas specifically for graduate students are located on the 5th floor of the Webster Library.

Dissertation Writers' Rooms

    LB-561 “Iceland”
    LB-562 “Venezuela”
    LB-564 “Mali”

Reading Room

    LB-545 “Spain”

Graduate Shelves and Lockers

Students must go to the Webster Loans & Returns Desk during service hours to obtain a shelf and/or locker in the Webster graduate study space. Find out more about Webster Library's Dissertation Writers’ Rooms.


A number of lockers in Webster Library's Dissertation Writers' Rooms on LB-5 become available three times during the academic year. The dates for this year are:

    Monday, October 2, 2023
    Monday, January 29, 2024
    Monday, May 27, 2024

On the above dates, requests for lockers and shelves can be made at the Webster Loans Desk (see opening hours), near the entrance to the Library, and will be treated on a first come first served basis. Shelves can be requested anytime during the year. More information about the lockers and shelves.

Policy

To ensure a quiet study environment for all users of the rooms, no group discussions are permitted in the enclosed areas. In the Webster Library, food is permitted only in the kitchen beside the graduate students' lounge. Graduate study rooms are accessible when the Webster Library is open for study.
Location

The Vanier Library Graduate Study Rooms are located in VL-307 and VL-305.

Access

    A valid Concordia student ID must be presented at the Vanier Library Circulation Desk (during opening hours) to obtain an access code to these Graduate Study Rooms. The code is assigned to an individual student and must not be shared with others.
    For security reasons, these rooms are open from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. during Fall and Winter semesters. In the Summer semester, the rooms are open during Library opening hours. Please leave the room when Security agents do their rounds.

Policy

No personal items, food or drink should be kept in the Graduate Study Rooms. If these items are found in the rooms, they will be removed.

    VL-307
        This room is shared by several graduate students. To promote a quiet study environment for all users of this Room, no group discussions are permitted.
        Students may "borrow" a shelf for keeping library materials. Shelves are assigned for a one-year period, with the expiry date being September 30. Shelves are assigned on a first-come, first-served basis.
        Library books that you want to keep on the shelf must be checked out at the Circulation Desk. The items are assigned to a shelf for a year. Any items assigned to the shelf will have a flag that corresponds to that year (one book/one flag). An item found without a flag will be removed from the shelf by Library staff.
        You are encouraged to return material that is no longer needed to the Circulation Desk. All material kept on a shelf must be returned or renewed by the due date indicated on the slip.
        The Library reserves the right to remove any materials that have been recalled/requested by other users after an initial 30-day loan period. A slip with information about the book and the reason for its removal will be left on the shelf.
    VL-305
        This room is intended to be a meeting room for group work or discussion (maximum 3 people).
        This room can be used on a first-come, first-served basis. However, the room can be booked ahead of time. Priority is given to those who have made a booking.
        Bookings are limited to current graduate students.
        The room can be reserved for up to 3 hours per day.
        Reservations can be made up to 14 days in advance.
        There is a maximum of one reservation a day, 3 reservations per week, Monday to Sunday.
Group study rooms: General information

    Bookings are limited to current students, staff and faculty members.
    Group Study Rooms can be reserved for up to 3 hours per day.
    Reservations can be made up to 14 days in advance.
    There is a maximum of one reservation a day, 3 reservations per week, Monday to Sunday.
    A minimum of two (2) people affiliated with Concordia are required to use a room. This does not apply to students with disabilities.

Note: additional guidelines are available in the reservation policy for study rooms.
Webster Library group study rooms

Unclaimed reservations expire after 15 minutes.

Available between 8 a.m. and 11 p.m.
Two students at table in glass-walled room

There are 15 group study rooms:

    LB-2: LB-251 (Linda Kay), LB-257 (Croatia), LB-259 (New Zealand)
    LB-3: LB-351 (Netherlands), LB-353 (Kenya), LB-359 (Vietnam)
    LB-4: LB-451 (Brazil), LB-453 (Japan), LB-459 (Italy)
    LB-5: LB-518 (Ukraine), LB-520 (South Africa), LB-522 (Peru), LB-547 (Lithuania), LB-583 (Poland)

Each study room contains: 1 table, 6 chairs, a 46" LCD screen (or two 42" LCD screens in the LB-2 study rooms) with wired (HDMI, DisplayPort) and wireless connections, a wide-angle USB camera and multiple power outlets.
Vanier Library group study rooms

Unclaimed reservations expire after 15 minutes.

Available between 8 a.m. and 11 p.m.
There are 10 group study rooms located on the 3rd floor:

    Basic rooms: VL 301-10, VL 301-11, VL 301-22, VL 301-23, VL 301-24, VL 301-25
    Rooms with digital collaboration technology: VL 301-12, VL 301-13, VL 301-20, VL 301-21

The rooms with digital collaboration technology contain one table, six chairs, a 46" LCD screen with wired ports (HDMI, DisplayPort) and multiple power outlets.
Grey Nuns group study rooms

Unclaimed reservations expire after 15 minutes.
There are 14 group study rooms available on the first floor of the Grey Nuns building:

    Basic rooms: B.101, B.102, B.120
    Rooms with digital collaboration technology: B.104, B.106, B.108, B.109, B.110, B.111, B.121, B.122, B.123, B.124, B.125

The rooms with digital collaboration technology contain one table, six chairs, a 46" LCD screen with wired (HDMI, DisplayPort, DisplayPort) and wireless connections, a wide-angle USB camera and multiple power outlets. Read more about the group study room technology in the Grey Nuns Reading Room.
Back to top
Reservation policy for study rooms

    Rooms can be reserved online via the Concordia Library Booking System
    Rooms are meant to be used by groups who need to discuss Concordia related courses and projects.
    Rooms are for people affiliated with Concordia University (current students, staff and faculty).
    Priority use is given to those who have booked the room.
    Empty rooms may be used without prior booking, however; they must be vacated if a group with a valid booking arrives.
    Bookings become invalid if the room is not claimed within the first 15 minutes. After the first 15 minutes, the booking becomes invalid if at any point the room is left unoccupied.
    Rooms may be reserved for up to three (3) consecutive hours.
    Rooms may be reserved up to 14 days in advance.
    A maximum of one (1) room can be booked per person per day.
    A maximum of three (3) Group Study Rooms can be booked per person per week, Monday to Sunday.
    Individuals cannot claim group study room bookings. A minimum of two (2) people affiliated with Concordia are required to use a room. If there is only one person using a room, they may be asked to leave. This does not apply to students with disabilities.
    The Library reserves the right to cancel reservations for maintenance or other unforeseen circumstances.

link: https://library.concordia.ca/locations/study-spaces.php

title: Librarians and professionals
description: Krista ALEXANDER
Associate Librarian
Applied Human Sciences, Biochemistry/Chemistry, Mathematics & Statistics, and Physics Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 5237
Krista.Alexander@concordia.ca

Anibal ARELLANO
Technology Services Analyst
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7692
Anibal.Arellano@concordia.ca
B

Francisco BERRIZBEITIA
Developer
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7734
Francisco.Berrizbeitia@concordia.ca

Kathleen BOTTER
Senior Librarian
Systems Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7793
Kathleen.Botter@concordia.ca

Susie BREIER
Associate Librarian
Sociology, Anthropology, Sexuality Studies & Women’s Studies Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7690
Susie.Breier@concordia.ca

Hélène BROUSSEAU
Assistant Librarian
Art History, Design and Computational Arts, and Studio Arts Librarian
Digital Media and Visual Resources Librarian
Cinema, Dance and Music Subject Librarian
Theatre Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7783
Helene.Brousseau@concordia.ca

Amy BUCKLAND
Senior Librarian
University Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7695
university.librarian@concordia.ca
C

Christopher CARR (on leave)
Associate Librarian
Special Materials Cataloguing Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7752
Christopher.Carr@concordia.ca

Pamela CARSON (on leave)
Associate Librarian
Web Services Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7685
Pamela.Carson@concordia.ca

Joshua CHALIFOUR
Associate Librarian
Digital Scholarship Librarian
Journalism & Communication Studies Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7759
Joshua.Chalifour@concordia.ca

Dr. Olivier CHARBONNEAU
Senior Librarian
Interim Head, Vanier Library
Management and Marketing Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7725
O.Charbonneau@concordia.ca

David CLARK
Immersive Technology Lead
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7621
David.Clark@concordia.ca

Emma CLARKE
Assistant Librarian, Limited Term Appointment
Electronic Resources Coordinator
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7413
Emma.Clarke@concordia.ca

Dianne CMOR
Senior Librarian
Associate University Librarian, Teaching & Learning
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7693
Dianne.Cmor@concordia.ca
D

Larry DECK
Associate Librarian
Systems Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7756
Larry.Deck@concordia.ca

Natalia DIAZ
Assistant Librarian, Limited Term Appointment
Collections Librarian and Archivist
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7988
Natalia.Diaz@concordia.ca
E

Jean-Marc EDWARDS
Associate University Librarian, Information Systems and Technology
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7732
Jean-Marc.Edwards@concordia.ca

Laurent EVRIN
Manager, Information Systems & Technology
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7323
Laurent.Evrin@concordia.ca
F

Megan FITZGIBBONS
Acting Associate University Librarian, Research & Graduate Studies
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7004
Megan.Fitzgibbons@concordia.ca
G

Éthel GAMACHE
Associate Librarian
Religions and Cultures, Theological Studies, Études françaises, Philosophy, Classics, Modern Languages, and Linguistics Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7742
Ethel.Gamache@concordia.ca

Meredith GIFFIN
Associate Librarian
Collections Coordinator
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7599
Meredith.Giffin@concordia.ca

Michael GROENENDYK
Associate Librarian
Digital Scholarship Librarian
Accountancy, Supply Chain Management, Business Technology Management, MBA, EMBA, Finance, and Economics Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7553
Michael.Groenendyk@concordia.ca

Alex GUINDON
Associate Librarian
Geospatial and Data Services Librarian
Geography Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7754
Alex.Guindon@concordia.ca
H

Katharine HALL
Associate Librarian
Biology and Health, Kinesiology & Applied Physiology Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7772
Katharine.Hall@concordia.ca

Andréa HARLAND
Associate Librarian
Access & Delivery Services Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7702
Andrea.Harland@concordia.ca

Jim HARRIS
Systems Analyst
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7083
Jim.Harris@concordia.ca

Dr. Rachel HARRIS
Associate Librarian
Scholarly Publishing Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7795
Rachel.Harris@concordia.ca
I

Laura IVAN
Associate Librarian
Head, Information Services
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7724
Laura.Ivan@concordia.ca
J

Karen JENSEN
Associate Librarian
Head, Cataloguing and Collection Maintenance
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7749
Karen.Jensen@concordia.ca

Rajiv JOHAL (on leave)
Associate Librarian
Associate University Librarian, Research & Graduate Studies
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7746
Rajiv.Johal@concordia.ca
L

Michelle LAKE
Associate Librarian
Government Publications Librarian
Political Science, School of Community & Public Affairs and First Peoples Studies Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7361
Michelle.Lake@concordia.ca

Sarah LAKE
Associate Librarian
Digital Preservation Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7619
Sarah.Lake@concordia.ca

John LATOUR (on leave)
Associate Librarian
Teaching & Research Librarian – Fine Arts
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7811
John.Latour@concordia.ca

Chloe LEI
Associate Librarian
Teaching & Research Librarian, Engineering & Computer Science
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7909
Chloe.Lei@concordia.ca
M

Aeron MACHATTIE
Assistant Librarian, Limited Term Appointment
Teaching & Research Librarian
English, Irish Studies and History Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7380
Aeron.MacHattie@concordia.ca

Sandra MARGOLIAN
Public Art Lead
(514) 848-2424, ext. 4867
s.margolian@concordia.ca

Alexandra MILLS
Associate Librarian
Head, Special Collections & Archives
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7723
Alexandra.Mills@concordia.ca
N

Tomasz NEUGEBAUER
Senior Librarian
Digital Projects & Systems Development Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7738
Tomasz.Neugebauer@concordia.ca
R

Pat RIVA
Senior Librarian
Associate University Librarian, Collection Services
(514) 848-2424, ext. 5255
Pat.Riva@concordia.ca

Melissa RIVOSECCHI
Associate Librarian
Teaching & Research Librarian, Social Sciences
Education and Applied Linguistics/TESL Subject Librarian
Art Education and Creative Arts Therapies Subject Librarian
Psychology Subject Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7506
Melissa.Rivosecchi@concordia.ca
S

Christine SMITH
Associate Librarian
Head, Acquisitions & Serials
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7751
Christine.Smith@concordia.ca

Jasia STUART
Coordinator, Digital Services
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7733
Jasia.Stuart@concordia.ca
V

Kumiko VÉZINA (on leave)
Senior Librarian
Electronic Resources Coordinator
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7413
Kumiko.Vezina@concordia.ca
W

Jared WIERCINSKI (on leave)
Senior Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7726
Jared.Wiercinski@concordia.ca

Ellen WRIGHT
Assistant Librarian, Limited Term Appointment
Media Cataloguing Librarian
(514) 848-2424, ext. 7712
ellen.wright@concordia.ca

link: https://library.concordia.ca/about/staff/a-z.php

title: AAA Digital Library
description: Full-text access from 2007 - 2013 to most of the Journals published by the American Accounting Accounting Association.
link: https://meridian.allenpress.com/aaa

title: ABI/INFORM Global
description: This ProQuest database covers all aspects of management, accounting, finance, marketing, decision sciences and many areas of economics. Indexes and abstracts more than 1,300 journals, including 400 English-language international titles. Fulltext or full image is currently available for many titles   fulltext options (print, save to diskette, e-mail, or fax) vary from journal to journal. See also ABI/Inform Trade and Industry. Coverage: Fulltext 1987 onward. Citations and abstracts from 1971 onward.
link: https://search.proquest.com/abiglobal/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ABI/INFORM Trade & Industry
description: Part of ProQuest Central, this database contains more than 700 fulltext publications dealing with every major trade and industry. The focus is on industry and company news, current research and development, and new technology. Varies widely, with a few publications indexed from 1971, some beginning fulltext in 1987, and the majority beginning fulltext in the past 2 years.
link: https://search.proquest.com/abitrade/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Academic Search Complete (EBSCOhost)
description: A scholarly, multi-disciplinary full-text database on the EBSCOhost platform, with more than 8,800 full-text periodicals, including more than 7,600 peer-reviewed journals. In addition to full text, this database offers indexing and abstracts for an additional 9,200 journals. Includes full-text for another 1,000 full-text documents (monographs, reports, conference proceedings, etc). The database features PDF content going back as far as 1887, with the majority of full text titles in searchable PDF format.

Also known as: EBSCO
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=a9h

title: ACLS Humanities E-Books
description: An online collection of over 3,300 scholarly and academic books in the humanities and related social sciences. Also known as HEB, Fulcrum.
link: https://www.fulcrum.org/heb

title: ACM digital library
description: This resource is licensed for authorized users of Concordia University Libraries and is intended for educational or research purposes only. Commercial use of this resource is not permitted. Please review Concordia's Database Usage Guidelines 
ACM Digital Library provides access to citations, abstracts and full-text of articles published in the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) journals, magazines, conference proceedings and newsletters. ACM publications cover computer science, information technology, software engineering, networking, wireless communications, and other computing-related subjects. Search the Digital Library using index terms and keywords or browse journal tables of contents. Also known as Association for Computing Machinery Digital Library. Coverage: 1985 onward; Updated frequently
link: https://dl.acm.org/

title: ACS Guide to Scholarly Communication
description: The ACS Guide to Scholarly Communication provides instruction and advice on writing effectively at the scholarly level. Published by the American Chemical Society, this tool is useful for students, librarians, researchers, and educators, across all disciplines. In additional to journal authoring topics and styling conventions, new content includes: open access & open science, sharing data, communicating safety information, and preprints.
link: https://pubs.acs.org/doi/book/10.1021/acsguide

title: ACS In Focus Ebook Collection
description: The American Chemical Society's (ACS) In Focus is a collection of ebook primers that provide overviews in the sciences, designed for readers who need thorough yet concise material on topics outside of their field of expertise. Primers can be read in 4-6 hours. Topics include emerging and cross-disciplinary subjects not traditionally taught in an undergraduate chemistry curriculum. 

Features include a pop-up glossary, video interviews with scientists, animations, and weblinks to related content. 

In Focus eBooks cannot be downloaded in PDF format. To save your annotations, you must register for an ACS Account, which is otherwise optional. NOTE: There is a technical issue preventing account registration when accessing via Concordia's subscription. Please use this URL  to create an account. After the account has been created, access via the Library link, log in to your ACS account or follow the prompts to pair your account to your institution.
link: https://pubs.acs.org/series/infocus

title: ACS Journals
description: American Chemical Society Journals includes access to 60 journals published by the ACS in the advanced fields of chemistry, chemical engineering and related subjects. Documents indexed: Journal Articles. Part of the CRKN package.
link: https://pubs.acs.org/about.html

title: Advanced Technologies & Aerospace Database
description: The Advanced Technologies & Aerospace Collection database, part of the ProQuest platform, covers research in aeronautics, astronautics, and space sciences. The database includes references to journal articles, conference papers and technical reports. It is produced by the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA). Coverage: 1962 onwards Documents Indexed: Proceedings, Journal Articles, Technical Reports.
Formerly known as Cambridge Scientific Abstracts aerospace & high technology database.
link: https://search-proquest-com.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/hightechjournals/advanced/fromDatabasesLayer?accountid=10246

title: Agricola
description: Serves as the catalog and index to the collections of the National Agricultural Library, as well as a primary public source for world-wide access to agricultural information. The database covers materials in all formats and periods, including printed works from as far back as the 15th century.  The records describe publications and resources encompassing all aspects of agriculture and allied disciplines, including animal and veterinary sciences, entomology, plant sciences, forestry, aquaculture and fisheries, farming and farming systems, agricultural economics, extension and education, food and human nutrition, and earth and environmental sciences. 
Simultaneous users: Unlimited; 
Documents indexed: Journal articles
link: https://agricola.nal.usda.gov/cgi-bin/Pwebrecon.cgi?DB=local&PAGE=bbSearch&STARTDB=AGRIDB

title: America: History and Life
description: A good place to start your search for articles about Canadian or American history. Covers all aspects of U.S. and Canadian history, culture and current affairs from prehistoric times to the present. For world history other than Canada and the United States. Offered on the EBSCO platform. See also the database &quot;Historical Abstracts&quot;. Coverage: 1964 onward
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=ahl

title: American film scripts online
description: NOTE: If you are experiencing problems accessing the content from off-campus, please delete your browser's cookies and temporary internet files. 
This edition of American Film Scripts Online (AFSO) contains 497 scripts by 605 writers together with detailed, fielded information on the scenes, characters and people related to the scripts, which are authorized versions of the texts. When complete, the collection will include more than 1,000 scripts. ---  NOTE: This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections.
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/afso

title: American Institute of Physics (AIP) Publications
description: This is a collection of select full-text e-journals in physics and astronomy, representing more than 25 scientific and engineering societies. Concordia subscribes to only some of the journals in this database.
link: https://pubs.aip.org/pages/journals

title: American Mathematical (AMS) Society Publications
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals provided by the American Mathematical Society.
link: https://www.ams.org/joursearch/

title: American Mathematical Society (AMS) eBooks
description: This is a collection of full-text eBooks provided by the American Mathematical Society. We have access to only certain sub-collections.
link: https://www.ams.org/publications/ebooks/ebooks

title: American Periodicals
description: Includes digitized images of the pages of American magazines and journals published from 1741 to 1940. Titles range from Benjamin Franklin's General Magazine and America's first scientific journal, Medical Repository  popular magazines such as Vanity Fair and Ladies' Home Journal  regional and niche publications  and groundbreaking journals like The Dial, Puck, and McClure's.  Offered on the ProQuest platform.
link: https://search.proquest.com/americanperiodicals/advanced?accountid=10246

title: American Physical Society (APS) Journals
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals in physics by the American Physical Society.
link: https://journals.aps.org/

title: American Presidency Project
description: A collection of documents related to the study of the Presidency of the United States of America. Includes the Public Papers of the Presidents, which contain most of the President's public messages, statements, speeches, and news conference remarks. Documents such as Proclamations, Executive Orders, and similar documents that are published in the Federal Register and the Code of Federal Regulations, as required by law, are usually not included for the presidencies of Herbert Hoover through Gerald Ford (1929-1977), but are included beginning with the administration of Jimmy Carter (1977). The documents within the Public Papers are arranged in chronological order.
link: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu

title: Année philologique
description: A comprehensive index for scholarly research in classical studies, L'Année philologique contains over 375,000 bibliographic records to books, book reviews, conference proceedings and journal articles. It covers all aspects of classical studies including literature, linguistics, archaeology, textual and literary history, religion, law, philosophy and science.

Access is limited to 3 concurrent users.
link: http://apps.brepolis.net/LTool/Entrance.aspx?w=1

title: Annual bibliography of English language and literature (ABELL)
description: ABELL (Annual Bibliography of English Language and Literature) provides references to journal articles, books, chapters (or essays) in books, dissertations (until 1999), and book reviews of secondary sources. It covers all literatures written in English, including American, British, Canadian, Commonwealth and Postcolonial literatures, as well as dramatic arts. It features more than 300 full-text journals. Coverage: 1920 onward
link: https://www.proquest.com/lion/advancedsearch/abelladvanced

title: Annual Reviews Complete
description: The Complete collection of Annual Reviews provides access to all 51 full-text Annual Review journals: from the Sciences (Agriculture, Analytical Chemistry, Biomedical, Life Sciences and Physical Sciences) to Social Sciences and Economics.
link: https://www.annualreviews.org/

title: Antarctic Bibliography and Bibliography on Cold Regions Science and Technology
description: The Antarctic Bibliography covers all disciplines related to the region including biological and geological sciences, medical sciences, meteorology, oceanography, atmospheric and terrestrial physics, expeditions, logistics equipment and supplies, and tourism  The Bibliography on Cold Regions Science and Technology includes references (with some fulltext) to scientific and engineering research related to material and operations in a winter battlefield, the nature and impact of cold on facilities and activities, cold-related environmental problems, and the impact of human activity on cold environments. Documents indexed: Books, Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Maps, Patents, Technical Reports, Theses & Dissertations and Government Documents.
link: https://www.coldregions.org/vufind/

title: Anthropology plus
description: Combines two resources - Anthropological Literature from the Tozzer Library at Harvard University and Anthropological Index from the Royal Anthropological Institute in the UK.  Indexes journal articles (over 3,000 journals), reports, commentaries, edited works, and obituaries in the fields of social, cultural, physical, biological, and linguistic anthropology, ethnology, archaeology, folklore, material culture, and interdisciplinary studies. Offered on the EBSCO platform. Coverage: late 19th century to present
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=ant

title: AnthroSource
description: Developed by the American Anthropological Association (AAA), AnthroSource offers access to archives of  all AAA journals through as well as current issues for 11 of the AAA's most critical peer-reviewed publications. Documents indexed: Journal Articles. Also known as Anthro source.
link: https://anthrosource.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/

title: APA Books
description: A collection of e-books covering core and emerging sub-disciplines of psychology. Also known as APA ebooks, APA Handbooks in Psychology, APA Handbooks Series.
link: https://psycnet.apa.org/bookcollections/title/

title: APA PsycTests
description: APA PsycTESTS, produced by the American Psychological Association (APA) and accessed on EBSCOhost, is a database of testing instruments for research and/or teaching. The database - designed for use with social and behavioral science research - includes mainly unpublished tests, most of which can be downloaded. Each record provides a summary of the construct, and users can find information on reliability, validity, and factor analysis. Records also include supplemental information such as datasets, answer keys, scoring sheets, and test manuals, when available. Instructors can refer to the record’s Permissions field to easily determine if a test may be used for teaching.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=pst

title: Archives of Sexuality and Gender (Gale Primary Sources)
description: The Gale Archives of Sexuality & Gender is a collection of primary sources relating to the history and study of sex, sexuality, gender research and gender studies research. Includes content from 1600 to the early 21st century, from hundreds of institutions and organizations. Social, political, health, and legal issues impacting LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer) communities around the world are included.,

Includes 4 sub-collections:
International Perspectives on LGBTQ Activism and Culture
LGBTQ History and Culture Since 1940, Part I
LGBTQ History and Culture Since 1940, Part II
Sex and Sexuality, Sixteenth to Twentieth Century

Also known as: Gale Primary Sources
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/AHSI?u=concordi_main

title: Archives Unbound
description: Topically-focused collections of historical documents that cover a broad range of topics in history, political science, science, ethnic studies and more, in a cross-searchable format.

Correspondence from German Concentration Camps and Prisons, 1935-1945
German Anti-Semitic Propaganda, 1909-1941
Holocaust and Concentration Camp Trials: Prosecution of Nazi War Crimes
Intergovernmental Committee on Refugees: The West's Response to Jewish Emigration
The Jewish Question: Records from the Berlin Document Center
Jewish Underground Resistance: The David Diamant Collection
Nazi Bank and Financial Institutions: US Military Government Investigation Reports and Interogations of Nazi Financiers
Diary of Hans Frank, Governor General of Poland
Nuremberg Laws and Nazi Annulment of German Jewish Nationality
Testaments to the Holocaust: Documents and Rare Printed Materials
US Relations with the Vatican and the Holocaust, 1940-1950
Also known as: Gale Archives Unbound
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/GDSC?u=concordi_main

title: ArchiviaNet
description: ArchiviaNet provides an online research tool that allows access to a vast amount of information created by the National Archives of Canada. It provides access to basic information about the National Archives of Canada and to a large variety of services. Several different databases make up ArchiviaNet: Aboriginal Peoples  Colonial Archives  Dominion Land Grants  Films, Videos, and Sound Recordings - Contains more than 265,000 film, video and soundtrack descriptions   Home Children - Contains names of the almost 90,000 children sent to Canada from Great Britain during the child emigration movement between 1869 and 1928. Names of these Home Children are from passenger lists. Index to the 1871 Census of Ontario - Contains the names of heads of households, as well as that of any person bearing a different family name to that of the head of the household. Each reference refers to the exact page where the name can be found in the original census report   Photographs - Contains over 22 million photographs illustrating Canadian reality, and certain aspects of the world in general   Post Offices - Documents changes of postmasters at individual post offices located across Canada. The data refers to open and closed post offices in the ten provinces and three territories. Records Created by Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government of Canada - Contains detailed descriptions of more than 1.5 million files (title, document security rating, file number, date, etc.) created by departments and agencies of the Federal Government of Canada  Soldiers of the First World War: Canadian Expeditionary Force - An index to the personnel files of the over 600,000 Canadians who enlisted during the First World War (1914-1918). In addition Attestation papers have been scanned and made accessible through the database  Works of Art and Caricatures - Contains more than 275,000 works of art relating mostly to Canada. Documents indexed: Government Documents. Also known as Archivia Net.
link: https://www.collectionscanada.gc.ca/archivianet/index-e.html

title: Arctic Health Portal
description: Arctic Health is a central source for information on diverse aspects of the Arctic environment and the health of northern peoples. Search results include published and unpublished articles, reports, data, and links to organizations pertinent to Arctic health, as well as out-of-print publications and information from special collections at the University of Alaska. With over 250,000 records, Arctic Health provides access to evaluated health information from hundreds of local, state, national, and international agencies, as well as from professional societies, tribal groups, and universities.
link: https://arctichealth.org/

title: Art and archaeology technical abstracts (AATA online)
description: Art and Archaeology Technical Abstracts enhances the preservation of our global cultural patrimony by providing abstracts of the international literature of conservation and heritage management in a free online database. Articles from over 400 journals are abstracted annually. Coverage: 1995 onward Update Frequency: updated quarterly Documents indexed: Journal Articles
link: https://aata.getty.edu/

title: Art Full Text (H.W. Wilson)
description: Full text plus abstracts and indexing of an international array of peer-selected publications, with expanded coverage of Latin American, Canadian, Asian and non-Western art, new artists, contemporary art, exhibition reviews, and feminist criticism.  Citations come from over 450 international art publications, including periodicals, yearbooks, and museum bulletins. Coverage: Indexing from 1984 onward. Abstracts from 1994 onward. Full Text from 1997 onward Documents indexed: Art Reproductions, Film Reviews, Journal Articles, Magazine Articles. Offered on the EBSCO platform.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=aft

title: Art Index Retrospective (H.W. Wilson)
description: Citations to articles, interviews, film reviews and reproductions of works of art appearing in over 250 English and foreign language publications. Topics covered include individual artists, art & architecture, industrial design, film making, video art, pottery, sculpture, textiles and more. Coverage: 1929-1984 Documents indexed: Art Reproductions, Film Reviews, Journal Articles, Magazine Articles. Offered on the EBSCO platform.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=air

title: Art Museum Image Gallery
description: Provides access to art images and related multimedia. Offered on the EBSCO platform.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=ami

title: Artbibliographies modern
description: Citations and abstracts covering Impressionism in the late 19th century, up to the most recent works and trends in the late twentieth century. Coverage of all aspects of modern and contemporary art, including performance art and installation works, video art, computer and electronic art, body art, graffiti, artists' books, theater arts, and more, as well as the traditional fine arts of painting, photography, printmaking, sculpture and drawing. Provides international coverage of artists and artistic movements. Includes references to art journals, museum bulletins, exhibition catalogs and books.  Coverage: 1974 onward. Update Frequency: updated semiannually. Documents indexed: Books, Catalogues, Journal Articles
Also known as Art bibliographies modern.  Offered on the ProQuest platform.
link: https://search.proquest.com/artbibliographies/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ARTFL project
description: ARTFL Project (American & French Research on the Treasury of the French Language) is a University of Chicago portal which provides access to several fulltext databases.  Users can search for words appearing in a specific text, in works by a specific author, in texts written during a specific time period or in texts which belong to a particular genre and obtain the context in which those words appear in the text. ARTFL comprises:  Main ARTFL database (Tresor de la langue francaise): nearly 2000 documents, ranging from classic works of French literature to various kinds of non-fiction prose and technical writing.  Coverage starts with the Middle Ages but emphasis is on texts from the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries  B.A.S.I.L.E.: Le Corpus de la littérature narrative du Moyen Age au XXe siècle: Romans, Contes, Nouvelles.  A digital library of about 1000 narrative works (novels, tales, short stories)   New Additions Database   Encyclopédie de Diderot   French Women Writers (16th to the 19th century)   Provencal Poetry   Dictionnaires d'autrefois (French dictionaries of the 16th, 17th, 18th and 19th centuries)   Textes de Français Ancien (TFA) (12th - 15th centuries)   Translation of the Bible by Louis Segond (1910)   CRL Pamphlets and Periodicals of the French Revolution of 1848   Opera del Vocabolario Italiano (OVI) (OVI) (close to 1500 Italian texts, most dated prior to 1375). Documents indexed: Books Coverage: Documents from the 12th to the 20th centuries.
link: https://artfl-project.uchicago.edu

title: Arts & Humanities Database
description: Full-text database of titles covering Art, Architecture, Design, History, Philosophy, Music, Literature, Theatre and Cultural Studies.  Offered on the ProQuest platform.
link: https://search.proquest.com/artshumanities/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ARTStor
description: Note: The Artstor website will be retired on August 1, 2024 . Artstor’s content, key resources, and functionality (i.e. downloading, citing, zooming, comparing, creating groups, sharing curated content) are moving to JSTOR. Please see these FAQs for more information.

Alternate link, to search Artstor on JSTOR.

Searchable database of digital images and associated catalog data. ARTstor covers many time periods and cultures, and documents the fields of architecture, painting, sculpture, photography, decorative arts, and design, as well as many other forms of visual culture.
link: https://library.artstor.org/library/#

title: arXiv.org
description: The arXiv e-Print archive is a collection of electronic pre-prints in physics, mathematics, non-linear science and computer science. Started in August 1991, arXiv is a full automated electronic archive and distribution server for research papers. Covered areas include physics and related disciplines, mathematics, nonlinear sciences, computational linguistics, and neuroscience. arXiv is owned, operated and funded by Cornell University, with funding from the National Science Foundation. Coverage: 1991- Documents indexed: Journal Articles, Working Papers
link: https://www.arxiv.org/

title: ASCE Conference Proceedings
description: This is a collection of full-text conference proceedings
link: https://ascelibrary.org/proceedings

title: ASCE E-books & Standards
description: Collection of ebooks and standards published by the American Society of Civil Engineers, covering all civil engineering content areas, including construction, structures, transportation, geotechnics, environment, water resources, and professional practice.
link: https://ascelibrary.org/

title: ASCE Library
description: The ASCE online Research Library contains the fulltext of papers published in the journals of the American Society of Civil Engineers 
Coverage: Most journals 1990 - onwards;  proceedings 2001 - onwards (with a few titles dating back to 1996)
link: https://ascelibrary.org/

title: Asian American drama
description: Asian American Drama contains more than 250 plays by more than 40 playwrights, together with information on related productions, theaters, production companies, and more. This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press drama collections, which are cross-searchable in North American Theatre Online. This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections.
Documents indexed: Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc)
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/aadr

title: ASM Handbooks online
description: American Society for Metals (ASM) Handbooks Online features the complete content of twenty-four ASM Handbook volumes plus two ASM Desk Editions.
link: https://dl.asminternational.org/handbooks/pages/Handbooks_by_Volume

title: ASME Complete Digital Collection
description: This online collection includes over thirty international full-text e-journals as well as ebooks and conference proceedings published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

Transactions eJournals (Current & Archives)
eBooks
Conference Proceedings

ASME Topic Collections:
Quick and easy way to track up-to-the-minute content published by ASME on specific topics.
link: https://asmedigitalcollection.asme.org/

title: ASTIS
description: Contains over 56,000 records describing publications and research projects about northern Canada. ASTIS (Arctic Science and Technology Information System) also includes the earth sciences, the life sciences, engineering and technology, renewable and non-renewable resources, co-management, politics and government, economic and social conditions, land use, indigenous peoples, archaeology, history, art and literature.   ASTIS is maintained by the Arctic Institute of North America at the University of Calgary, and is part of the Canadian Polar Information Network.  Coverage: 1978-onward, with some older publications.
link: https://www.aina.ucalgary.ca/scripts/minisa.dll?HOME

title: ASTM Standards Only PLUS
description: ASTM Standards Only PLUS, on the ASTM Compass platform, offers access to the American Society for Testing and Material's (ASTM) 12,900+ standards as well as historical and redlined versions of standards.

Create an optional account on ASTM Compass (&quot;Register&quot; button located at the top right-hand corner of the Compass homepage) for access to additional features.
link: https://secure.astm.org/login?redirectUrl=aHR0cHM6Ly9jb21wYXNzLmFzdG0ub3Jn&newApproach=true

title: ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials
description: The American Theological Library Association's ATLAS Religion Database (ATLA + Serials fulltext) is a partially fulltext database that covers such topics as Biblical studies, world religions, Church history, and religious perspectives on social issues. It includes articles from journals, essays from multi-author works, and book reviews. Corresponds to Religion Index One: Periodicals, Religion Index Two: Multi-author Works and Index to Book Reviews in Religion. The Catholic Periodical and Literature Index (CPLI) is also part of ATLAS. Coverage: 1949 onward updated semi-annually Documents indexed: Books, Essays, Journal Articles. Offered on the EBSCO platform. List of Journals Indexed: http://www.atla.com/products/titles.html
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=rfh

title: Audio Ciné Films
description: Note: the system works best with GOOGLE CHROME. You may use other browsers, but they will require 3rd party plug-ins. 

The Audio Ciné Films collection offers access to 800 streaming titles, in English and French, from the most renowned film studios and producers including:  

Walt Disney Pictures
Touchstones Pictures
Hollywood Pictures
Pixar Animation Studios
Sony Pictures Entertainment
Columbia Pictures
Tristar Pictures
Screen Gems 
Universal Studios Canada (MCA)
MGM Studios
United Artists
link: https://streaming.acf-film.com/audiocine

title: Autochtonia
description: Indexes over 12,000 documents relating to the aboriginal peoples of Quebec, including books, scholarly journals, masters and doctoral theses, research reports, government publications, and publications of aboriginal organizations.Also known as Banque documentaire Autochtonia.
link: https://reseaudialog.ca/innover/autochtonia/

title: Avalon Project
description: A collection of digital documents relevant to the fields of Law, History, Economics, Politics, Diplomacy and Government.
link: https://avalon.law.yale.edu

title: Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals
description: Comprehensive listing of journal articles on architecture and design, including the history and practice of architecture, landscape architecture, city planning, historic preservation, and interior design and decoration. The American and international journals indexed include not only scholarly and popular periodical literature, but also publications of professional associations, American state and regional periodicals, and the major serials on architecture and design of Europe, Asia, Latin America, and Australia. Coverage is mainly from 1934 to the present, with selective coverage back to 1741.Offered on the EBSCO platform.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=bvh

title: Backfile Package - Business, Management and Accounting
description: This is a collection of full-text business, management and accounting e-journals offered via the Elsevier ScienceDirect platform.
link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/browse/sub/busmanacc

title: Backfile Package - Economics, Econometrics and Finance
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals offered via the Elsevier ScienceDirect platform.
link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/browse/sub/economics

title: Backfile Package - Engineering and Technology [YEN]
description: Historical archive of full-text journals covering topics in science and technology offered via the Elsevier ScienceDirect platform.
link: https://www.sciencedirect.com

title: Backfile Package - Materials Science [YMS]
description: Historical archive of full-text journals published on materials science prior to 1994 offered via the Elsevier ScienceDirect platform.
link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/browse/sub/materialsscience

title: Balance of payments statistics (BOP) online
description: Composed of international economic transactions data, BOP delivers vital statistical information that covers: total goods, services, factor income, and current transfers an economy receives from or provides to the rest of the world  capital transfers and changes in each economys external financial claims and liabilities  tables featuring area and world totals of balance of payments components and aggregates. The IMF data include aggregate as well as detailed information in the form of analytical and standard component presentations for countries. 
Coverage: 1967 to the present 
Updated once a month.
link: https://data.imf.org/?sk=7A51304B-6426-40C0-83DD-CA473CA1FD52

title: Bentham Science Publishers OA
description: Bentham Open is a collection of over 250 peer-reviewed open access full-text journals, covering all major disciplines of science, technology, and medicine.
link: https://benthamopen.com/

title: Berg Fashion Library
description: Online portal offering fully cross-searchable access to Berg content collections including the Berg Encyclopedia of World Dress and Fashion online, e-books, reference works, and images.
link: https://www.bloomsburyfashioncentral.com

title: Bibliography of Asian Studies (BAS)
description: The Bibliography of Asian Studies (BAS) contains more than 410,000 records on all subjects (especially humanities and social sciences) pertaining to East, Southeast, and South Asia published worldwide from 1971 to the present. Through the 1991 printed version, the BAS included citations to western-language periodical articles, individually authored monographs, chapters in edited volumes, conference proceedings, anthologies, and Festschriften, etc. Since 1992, newly published individual monographs are no longer being added to the database. Coverage: 1971 onward
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=bas

title: Bibliography of Indigenous Peoples in North America
description: Bibliographic database covering all aspects of native North American culture, history, and life. This resource covers a wide range of topics including archaeology, multicultural relations, gaming, governance, legend, and literacy. Includes citations for books, essays, journal articles, and government documents of the United States and Canada. Content range covers sixteenth century through the present. Earliest indexed publication is from 1890  some coverage throughout 20th century  majority of the collection was published after 1990.

Previously known as: Bibliography of Native North Americans (BNNA)
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&custid=s4759561&groupid=main&profile=ehost&defaultdb=fph

title: Bibliography of the history of art  (BHA)
description: BHA provides citations and some abstracts to the current literature of Western art from late antiquity (4th century A.D.) to the present. Included are selected monographs, conference reports, reviews, as well as periodical articles. Subjects cover architecture, painting, sculpture, drawing, prints, as well as decorative arts, industrial design, popular and folk art, photography, and performance art. Abstracts are in French or English  full subject indexes are in both languages. The database includes both BHA (covering 1990-2007) and the International Bibliography of Art (IBA), covering the years 2008 and part of 2009. The Rpertoire de la litterature de l'art (RILA), one of the predecessors of BHA, with records that cover 19751989, will be online by May 1, 2010. Coverage: 1984 to 2009 NOTE: As of April 1, 2010, the Bibliography of the History of Art (BHA) is available free of charge on the Getty Web site. However, it is no longer updated.
link: https://library.getty.edu/bha

title: Bioline International (Free Journals)
description: Bioline International is a platform of open access, peer reviewed bioscience journals published in developing countries. Focuses on research in public health, international development, tropical medicine, food and nutritional security and biodiversity.
link: http://www.bioline.org.br/journals

title: BIOSIS previews
description: Access is via Web of Knowledge.
BIOSIS Previews is the most comprehensive index in life sciences. It combines  journal content from Biological Abstracts with supplemental, non-journal content from Biological Abstracts/RRM (Reports, Reviews and Meetings):  Journal articles: citations taken from more than 5,000 international  journals. Full-text articles available through links  Meeting and conference reports: over 165,000 documents from nearly 1,500 meetings  Books: includes detailed information on contents  Patents: searchable by date granted, US patent number, and other details  Subject coverage: general biology, molecular biology, genetics, biotechnology, biochemistry, ecology, environmental biology, botany, zoology, biomedicine, pharmacology, veterinary science, nutrition  and public health.  BIOSIS Previews makes context-sensitive searching easier by variety of search fields: Organism Name, Diseases and Syndromes, Geopolitical Location, Taxonomic GroupChemicals & Biochemicals, Methods and Equipment Parts, Structures and Systems of Organisms, Molecular Sequence, Data, Industry.  Users can also perform cross-file searches with MeSH disease terminology and CAS Registry Numbers. Coverage: Documents published from 1969 onward
link: https://webofknowledge.com/BIOSIS

title: Black Abolitionist Papers (1830-1865)
description: This primary source collection details the extensive work of African Americans to abolish slavery in the United States prior to the Civil War. Covering the period 1830-1865, the collection presents the international impact of African American activism against slavery, in the writings of the activists themselves. Black Abolitionist Papers represents a huge effort by a scholarly team, headed by C. Peter Ripley and George E. Carter, who recognized that African Americans were a pivotal and persuasive force in the 19th-century anti-slavery movement. Accessed on the Proquest platform.

Content includes:

Correspondence of major African American leaders
Speeches, sermons, and lectures
Articles, essays, editorials, and other major writings from more than 200 newspapers: African American, abolitionist, and reform newspapers
Receipts, poems, and other miscellaneous documents
link: https://www.proquest.com/bap?accountid=10246

title: Black drama: 1850 to present
description: Black Drama contains approximately 1200 plays by 200 playwrights, together with information on related productions, theaters, production companies, and more. This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press drama collections, which are cross-searchable in North American Theatre Online. This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections.
Coverage: 1850 to present
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/bldr

title: Black thought and culture
description: Black Thought and Culture contains 912 sources with 741 authors which includes the non-fiction published works of leading African Americans.   Where possible the complete published non-fiction works are included, as well as interviews, journal articles, letters and other fugitive material. Coverage: Colonial times to 1975 This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections.
link: https://bltc.alexanderstreet.com/

title: Blackwell encyclopedia of sociology
description: This encyclopedia includes key concepts and terms and detailed coverage of selected major topics in sociology. Also included are materials are that have historically defined the discipline and more recent developments, significantly updating the store of sociological knowledge. Introductions to sociological theories and research that have developed outside of the United States and Western Europe are provided.
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/book/10.1002/9781405165518

title: Borealis, the Canadian Dataverse Repository
description: Contains research data added to the repository by researchers across Canada.
link: https://borealisdata.ca/

title: Brill Online Journals
description: A collection of journals published by Brill. Concordia subscribes to only some of the works in this database.
link: https://brill.com/browse?access=user&et=journal&pageSize=100&sort=datedescending

title: Brill Online Reference Works - Classical Studies
description: The following Classics resources are available on this platform, in both English and German: 
- New Pauly Online
- Brills New Pauly Supplements Online I and II

Supplementum Epigraphicum Graecum Online is available on the Brill Scholarly Editions platform.
link: https://referenceworks.brillonline.com/subjects/Classical%20Studies

title: British and Irish women's letters and diaries
description: Approximately 100,000 pages of material representing the personal writings of women from England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales, spanning more than 400 years. Includes letters and diaries of literary women such as Jane Austen and Charlotte Bronte. Topics include Australia, actresses, China, convent life, courtesans, court life, criminals, families, festivals and fairs, hospital work, literary society and life, missionaries, Palestine, political life, educators, railroads, scientists, social reformers, voyages, world tours, women soldiers and sailors and more. Coverage: 1500 to 1945 This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections.
link: https://bwld.alexanderstreet.com/

title: British Humanities Index (BHI)
description: An international abstracting and indexing tool for research in the humanities, Humanities Index indexes over 400 internationally respected humanities journals and weekly magazines published in the UK and other English speaking countries, as well as quality newspapers published in the UK. Coverage: 1962 to current. Offered on the ProQuest platform.
link: https://search.proquest.com/bhi/advanced?accountid=10246

title: British Library Newspapers
description: A collection of over 160 British newspapers, this archive provides a range of local and regional coverage from the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries. 

Includes 5 collections:
Part I: 1800-1900
Part II: 1800-1900
Part III: 1741-1950
Part IV: 1732-1950
Part V: 1746-1950
Details here.

Also known as: Gale Primary Sources
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/BNCN?u=concordi_main

title: British Periodicals Collection I - II
description: A collection of facsimile page images and searchable full text for hundreds of British periodicals (includes the UMI microfilm collections Early British Periodicals, English Literary Periodicals and British Periodicals in the Creative Arts together with additional titles, amounting to almost 3 million pages). Topics covered include literature, music, art, drama, archaeology and architecture.Offered on the ProQuest platform. Coverage from 1641 to 1939.
link: https://search.proquest.com/britishperiodicals/advanced

title: BrowZine
description: BrowZine is a free web/mobile application that allows you to browse, read, and monitor all journals available at Concordia University. BrowZine allows you to do a number of things including creating your own personalized bookshelf of favorite journals, alerting you to new issues of journals, adding bookmarks, etc.
link: https://browzine.com/libraries/119/

title: Business Book Summaries
description: Summaries of business books in a range of subject areas. Each entry includes author and publisher information, table of contents, a list of key concepts, a full summary, and an overview of the book's features.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=bbs

title: Business Source Complete
description: Provides full-text to more than 1,650 scholarly business journals including market research reports and company reports from Datamonitor, as well as fulltext access to a collection of books. This database offers information in nearly every area of business including management, economics, finance, accounting, international business, and more. Coverage: Citations and abstracts from 1886 onward for the most important scholarly business journals.Offered on the EBSCO platform.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=bsi

title: C19: The nineteenth century index
description: C19 is a bibliographic index for 19th-century research, providing records for millions of documents ranging from books and newspapers to government documents and periodicals. It includes all the records listed in Poole's Index to Periodical Literature, the Wellesley Index to Victorian Periodicals (1824-1900), the American Periodicals Series (1791-1919) and British Periodicals (1790-1931).
link: https://c19index.chadwyck.com/gotoSearchCollections.do?initialise=all

title: CAIRN CRKN Bouquet General Collection
description: CAIRN is a collection of French language periodicals in the social sciences and humanities.
link: https://www.cairn.info

title: Cambridge Books Online
description: Platform offering Cambridge University Press e-books in a variety of disciplines.
link: https://www.cambridge.org/core/what-we-publish/books

title: Cambridge Companions Complete Collection Online (CCO)
description: The Cambridge Companions Complete Collection contains the full text of the Cambridge Companions to literature, philosophy, religion, classics and culture.
link: https://www.cambridge.org/core/what-we-publish/collections/cambridge-companions

title: Cambridge University Press - CRKN
description: Full-text coverage of electronic journals that are published by Cambridge University Press (CUP), headquartered in Cambridge, England. Access to Cambridge University Press - CRKN Package is provided thanks to the Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN)
link: https://www.cambridge.org/core/what-we-publish/journals

title: Cambridge University Press e-books (CRKN DCI Project)
description: Cambridge University Press e-books is a collection of more than 2,700 humanities and social sciences titles from 1995 to the present. These ebooks are available on the MyiLibrary platform, and were acquired as part of the CRKN DCI Project (Ingram Digital E-books package).
link: https://lib.myilibrary.com/Home.aspx

title: Canada Commons
description: Note: Replaces the DesLibris/Canadian Electronic (CEL) platform as of May 1, 2022. 

Canada Commons is a database of Canadian ebooks and other publications. Includes content from both scholarly and independent publishers, and public policy papers from think tanks and government. Includes a  directory of Canadian research and government organizations.
link: https://canadacommons.ca

title: Canadian Art at Auction Index (Heffel)
description: Canadian Art at Auction Index is a search database providing over 30 years of auction records. The Index is an important resource for the collector, dealer, appraiser and museum professional with over 75,000 items listed and more than 60,000 lots reproduced.
link: https://www.heffel.com/ArtIndex/Index_E.aspx

title: Canadian Book Review Annual Online (CBRA)
description: Over 30,000 reviews of Canadian books written by academics, librarians, and other professionals.
link: http://cbraonline.com/home

title: Canadian Business & Current Affairs Database (CBCA)
description: Business: Indexes hundreds of Canadian business periodicals, many with fulltext, including trade journals, general business publications, academic journals, topical journals, and professional publications.  Education: Focuses on Canadian information in the field of Education, covering both research and practice oriented publications.  Interdisciplinary: CBCA Complete also indexes articles in over 600 Canadian newspapers, magazines and journals in all subject areas from 1982 onward. Includes fulltext articles from indexed Canadian periodicals starting in 1993. Coverage: Indexing: 1982 onward. Full text: 1993 onward. Documents indexed: Books, Essays, Financial Statements, Journal Articles, Magazine Articles, Newspaper articles.  Offered on the ProQuest platform.
link: https://search.proquest.com/cbcacomplete/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Canadian census analyser at CHASS
description: The Canadian Census Analyser provides access to Canadian Census Data. It includes access to Enumeration Area level Profile Tables, and Census Tract level Profile Tables. Documents indexed: Statistics
link: https://datacentre.chass.utoronto.ca/census

title: Canadian Corporate Finance Manual (CCFM)
description: Provides comprehensive, practical coverage of financing information and strategies in Canada. Part of the CICA Handbook Collection. Formerly known as the Canadian Business Financing Handbook (CBFH). Coverage: Canada Documents indexed: Reports
link: https://edu.knotia.ca/knowledge/Home.aspx?productID=130

title: Canadian encyclopedia - Encyclopédie canadienne
description: Available freely online since 2013, the Canadian Encyclopedia is a reference source covering Canadian history, geography, arts & culture, politics, etc. Documents indexed: Audiovisual Media
link: https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en

title: Canadian Franchise Association: Becoming a Franchisee: Find Your Franchise!
description: Directory of retail trade franchises available in Canada from the members of the Canadian Franchise Association. Search by category of business, location, or total investment required (which can be used as an estimate of start-up costs for each business opportunity). Also known as Franchise Canada Directory or Canadian Franchise Directory
link: http://www.cfa.ca/Look_for_Franchise/

title: Canadian Literary Centre
description: Book and reference content from Essays on Canadian Writing Press (ECW Press)  includes book reviews, essays, and author biographies.Offered on the EBSCO platform.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=cjh

title: Canadian music periodical index - Index des périodiques de musique canadiens
description: An index to Canadian music journals, newsletters and magazines from the late nineteenth century to the present, covering all aspects of musical activity in Canada.
link: https://www.bac-lac.gc.ca/eng/discover/films-videos-sound-recordings/music-periodical-index/Pages/canadian-music-periodical-index.aspx

title: Canadian Newsstream
description: Fulltext of Canadian daily newspapers (major dailies), as well as local and regional newspapers.  Excludes illustrations, graphs, classified ads, advertisements, and stock market reports. Formerly known as &quot;Canadian Newsstand&quot;. NOTE: the current issues of the Globe & Mail (1977 onward) are included. Offered on the ProQuest platform.
link: https://search.proquest.com/canadiannews/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Canadian Parliamentary Historical Resources
description: Free searchable database of the digitised debates and journals of the Senate and the House of Commons. Available in English and French. Includes all debates and journals from Parliament 1, Session 1 (1867) until coverage on parl.gc.ca begins (1994/1996).
link: https://parl.canadiana.ca/

title: Canadian patent database
description: Produced by the Canadian Intellectual Property Office (CIPO), the Canadian Patent Database provides access to patent descriptions, documents and images. Coverage: 1920 onward; Update Frequency: updated regularly; Documents indexed: Patents.
link: https://www.ic.gc.ca/opic-cipo/cpd/eng/introduction.html

title: Canadian Public Policy Collection (CPPC)
description: Chrome is the recommended browser for desLibris
A large collection (over 43,000 documents) of electronic monographs and reports from Canadian public policy institutes, government agencies, advocacy groups, university research centres, think-tanks, and other public interest groups. Also known as Canadian Electronic Library.
link: https://www.deslibris.ca/en-us/search.aspx

title: Canadian Publishers Collection (CPC)
description: Chrome is the recommended browser for desLibris
The Canadian Publishers Collection (part of the Canadian Electronic Library Books Collections) is a large collection of English and French e-books from Canadian publishers, including the major Canadian university presses. It includes over 70 leading Canadian publishers with over 16,000 titles.
link: https://www.deslibris.ca/en-us/search.aspx

title: Canadian research index (CRI)
description: Also known as Microlog Index, indexes a selection of Canadian federal, provincial, and municipal government documents. Concordia's Webster Library has a subscription to all the PROVINCIAL documents which are referred to in CRI. These are on microfiche and available in Webster Government Information Services area. The fiches are filed in cabinets by MICROLOG NO.The Libraries also have a high percentage of the federal documents described in CRI. Some of these documents are listed in the library catalogue, but many are not.  Check with staff at the Reference Desk of the Webster or Vanier Library. Coverage: 1982 onward; Update Frequency: monthly; Documents indexed: Government Documents, Reports, Theses & Dissertations. Offered on the ProQuest platform.
link: https://search.proquest.com/canadianresearch/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Canadian Science Publishing CRKN Journals  (NRC Research Press)
description: A collection of full-text e-journals published by Canadian Science Publishing (NRC Research Press) in all scientific disciplines.
link: https://www.nrcresearchpress.com/

title: Canadian trade index
description: Detailed information regarding Canadian companies, including manufacturers, active exporters, distributors of products in Canada, and service companies for manufactured products. Includes a comprehensive list of products and services.
link: https://www.ctidirectory.com/

title: Canadian Urban Data Catalogue
description: Contains urban and non-urban Canadian datasets. Note that not all datasets in the catalogue are openly accessible.
link: https://data.urbandatacentre.ca/

title: Canadiana Online
description: This collection consists of three themed collections: Monographs, Government Publications,  and Serials (periodicals, annuals, and newspapers). These collections incorporate into a single interface all of the existing content of Early Canadiana Online (ECO), the microfiche coll. of the Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions (CIHM), and many millions of pages of new content based around the three themed collections. Altogether, Canadiana Online includes 32 million pages of content (about 6 times the size of the ECO collection).   The Canadiana collections of archival material, government publications, periodicals, monographs, annuals, and newspapers will be free to access as of January 1, 2019. Coverage: 17th century to early 20th century (varies from one collection to the other); Access to Canadiana Online is provided thanks to the Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN). Update Frequency: regularly; Documents indexed: Books, Essays, Government Documents, Pamphlets.
link: https://www.canadiana.ca/

title: Canadiana Online - Periodicals
description: Early Canadiana Online is a digital library providing access to almost 14,000 digitized volumes of Canada's printed heritage. Features published works from the first European settlers up to the early 20th Century, with particular emphasis on literature, women's history, Native studies, and French Canada. Other collections include: Canadian Women's History;  Colonial Government Journals;  The Early Governors General of Canada;  Early Official Publications; English Canadian Literature; History of French Canada;  Hudson's Bay; Jesuit Relations;  Native Studies;  Reconstituted Debates. Coverage: 17th century to early 20th century (varies from one collection to the other); Access to Early Canadiana Online is provided thanks to the Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN). Update Frequency: regularly; Documents indexed: Books, Essays, Government Documents, Pamphlets. Also known a ECO - Periodicals
link: https://www.canadiana.ca/?usrlang=en

title: CanLII (Canadian Legal Information Institute)
description: Search Canadian case law. Free access to Canadian legal information, including court judgments, tribunal decisions, statutes and regulations from all Canadian jurisdictions.  Managed by the Federation of Law Societies of Canada.
link: https://www.canlii.org/

title: CANSIM @ CHASS
description: CANSIM (Canadian Socio-Economic Information Management System) time series. From Statistics Canada, statistics on a wide variety of social and economic aspects of Canadian life. Data can be displayed and manipulated online, printed or downloaded as tables or graphs, and/or downloaded for further manipulation in the spreadsheet or statistical package of your choice. Contains over 1.2 million current and discontinued series. CANSIM via E-STAT offers a more friendly interface to this database. Coverage: Historical and current data. Update Frequency: Updated daily. Documents indexed: Statistics
link: https://dc2.chass.utoronto.ca/chasscansim/

title: CanVec
description: CanVec contains more than 60 topographic features classes organized into 8 themes: Transport Features, Administrative Features, Hydro Features, Land Features, Manmade Features, Elevation Features, Resource Management Features and Toponymic Features.
This multiscale product originates from the best available geospatial data sources covering Canadian territory. It offers quality topographic information in vector format complying with international geomatics standards.
link: https://open.canada.ca/data/en/dataset/8ba2aa2a-7bb9-4448-b4d7-f164409fe056

title: CAS Analytical Methods
description: Important: You must use a CAS SciFinder Discovery username to access Analytical Methods. Register for a username here.  

CAS Analytical Methods is a single source for searching and comparing published scientific methods, covering emerging science in both analytical and synthetic chemistry. It features step-by-step instructions in pharmacology, HPLC, food analysis, natural product isolation analysis and water analysis, and others.
link: https://methods.cas.org

title: CAS Formulus
description: Important: You must use a CAS SciFinder Discovery username to access Formulus. Register for a username here.  

CAS Formulus includes information sourced from journals, patents, and product inserts, which allows users to explore formulations, identify relevant formulation approaches, and source ingredients. Understand the functionality of the each component in the formulation and whether or not the ingredient is required; conduct formulation-specific narrow searches; and find formulation common threads that create trends through food, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and agriculture
link: https://formulus.cas.org/

title: CAS SciFinder-n
description: Important: Click on the link above to see the instructions for online registration. You must use a CAS SciFinder Discovery username to access SciFinderⁿ. 

 If you land on an &quot;Error 413 - Cannot locate site owner&quot; error message, please empty your browser cache and try logging in again from the link above. 

CAS SciFinderⁿ  is the latest scientific information solution from CAS, a division of the American Chemical Society. In addition to the reference, substance, reaction and supplier content found in SciFinder, SciFinderⁿ includes relevance-ranked results, step-by-step procedures and protocols, citation mapping, sequence searching, retrosynthetic analysis, patent landscape mapping, touch-screen enabled structure drawing and much more—all accessible in a simple, easy-to-use interface.

Includes results from Chemisches Zentralblatt. English translations appear in SciFinderⁿ, as well links to the original German text.

Try the mobile version SciFinder Mobile.

Also known as: SciFinder, SciFinderN, SciFinder Scholar
link: https://library.concordia.ca/find/databases/licences/scifinderagree.php

title: CCINFOweb
description: Provides access to several health and safety databases covering international occupational health and safety literature.  Includes MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheets) on thousands of chemical products as contributed by North American manufacturers and suppliers, and contain information such as: chemical and physical properties  health hazards  first aid recommendations  personal protection etc. FTSS: A collection of over 52,000 French language MSDS. CHEMINFO: A collection of the most comprehensive health and safety information on chemicals  includes extensive bibliography of relevant articles. HSELINE: Over 175,000 references to the UK Health And Safety Executive (HSE) and other European literature.  NIOSHTIC is a bibliographic database which provides comprehensive international coverage of documents on occupational health and safety compiled by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. OSHLINE &quot;complements the coverage of NIOSHTIC, which was discontinued in mid-1998. Comprehensive coverage of journals and reports ensures that the most up-to-date sources are included. OSHLINE is compiled by the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety.&quot; RTECS (Registry of Toxic Effects of Chemical Substances): A collection of detailed profiles of over 130,000 chemicals.
link: http://ccinfoweb.ccohs.ca/

title: Census 2001
description: Some products will also be available in CD-ROM and paper format at Government Information Services (Webster Library).
The Census of Population provides the population and dwelling counts not only for Canada but also for each province and territory, and for smaller geographic units such as cities or districts within cities. The census also provides information about Canada's demographic, social and economic characteristics. Information available from the Statistics Canada website has been broken down into three categories: 1) Release highlights and Analysis, which includes analytical articles and summary descriptions of the data,  2) Release data where you will find the actual statistical data, 3) Release maps, a new feature of the 2001 Census, includes a geographic search tool (GeoSearch), Thematic Maps and Reference Maps which allow one to explore the standard geographic area used in the Census. Coverage: Data from the 2001 Census. Some historical data from previous census for comparison purposes. As of March 2002, only the population and dwelling counts are available. Update Frequency: Will be updated as new data become available. Documents indexed: Statistics
link: https://www12.statcan.gc.ca/english/census01/home/Index.cfm

title: Center for Research Libraries Global Resources
description: CRL Global Resources provides access to primary and secondary source materials for international research. Many of these collection materials are unique; most are unavailable from other sources. The Center's online catalogue includes more than 1.1 million titles and online finding aids. CRL Global Resources, currently provides over 1 million pages of digital content, and will grow substantially through digital conversion of the existing CRL paper and microfilm corpus and related historical and cultural materials. The collections include more than 5 million volumes of published monographs and serials, including over 800,000 non‐North American dissertations. GRN (Global Resource Network) is a collaborative initiative of CRL and higher academic research institutions to support international studies.
link: https://www.crl.edu

title: Cfile.campus
description: You might encounter a problem with the website's security certificate when trying to access this resource. Please disregard the warning and continue to the website.
NOTE: Please LOGOUT or close your browser window when you are finished using this resource.
Exhibition catalogs, ebooks, and video library.
link: https://cfileonline.org/online-publications/

title: CFMRC TSX
description: CFMRC includes daily and monthly Toronto Stock Exchange trading information about specific securities  information on &quot;price adjustments&quot; such as dividends, stock splits, recapitalizations, etc.  information on daily and monthly index levels  as well as selected other financial markets information. The database is divided into two parts: common equities and preferred equities. Coverage: 1950 onward; Update Frequency: Annually; Documents indexed: Statistics. Also known as Canadian Financial Markets Research Centre Summary Information Database at CHASS.
link: http://clouddc.chass.utoronto.ca/ds/cfmrc/

title: CGRG bibliography of Canadian geomorphology
description: Produced by the Canadian Geomorphology Research Group (CGRG), the CGRG Bibliography of Canadian Geomorphology is a searchable database dedicated to identifying publications describing the practice and application of geomorphology in Canada. Included within the database are annotated citations related to the fields of aeolian, applied, coastal, fluvial, glacial, hillslope, karst, periglacial, permafrost and offshore geomorphology. Also includes records describing Canadian Quaternary/Holocene environments and a substantial body of records related to Canadian hydrology. Coverage: coverage from the 1900s, but primarily from 1940 to the present; Documents indexed: Books, Journal Articles
link: http://cgrg-gcrg.com/bibliography/

title: ChemicalENGINEERINGnetBASE
description: Ebook collection of around 450 titles. Also known as ChemicalENGnetBASE
link: https://www.taylorfrancis.com/search?subject=SCEC&isFullAccessOnly=true&key=&collection=WB062

title: Chicago Manual of Style Online
description: The Chicago Manual of Style is a citation guide used by many disciplines. The popular Turabian style guide is based on the Chicago Manual of Style.
link: https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/home.html

title: China, trade, politics & culture, 1793-1980
description: Provides a wide variety of original English-language sources relating to China and the West, including letters, official papers, maps, books, and images. Essays and scholarly overviews support study and research on Chinese history. Access to China, Trade, Politics and Culture, 1793-1980 is provided through a Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN) agreement. This is an Adam Matthew Digital collection. Coverage: 1793-1980
link: https://www.china.amdigital.co.uk/

title: Choice Reviews Online
description: Reviews of academic books, electronic media, and Internet resources of interest to those in higher education.
link: https://www.choicereviews.org

title: Chronicle of Higher Education
description: Daily reports on developments in higher education, information technology, and distance education in America including faculty/administrative postings. The full text of the current issue of The Chronicle is available every Monday morning, following the Friday print publication. The site features an archive of premium articles of the last 28 years of The Chronicle.
link: https://www.chronicle.com

title: Circumpolar Heath Bibliographic Database
description: The Circumpolar Health Bibliographic Database contains 7900 records describing publications about all aspects of human health in the circumpolar region. The database is a project of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) Team in Circumpolar Health Research.
link: https://www.aina.ucalgary.ca/chbd/

title: CISDOC (CISILO)
description: Covers occupational health and safety, law and regulations, chemical safety data sheets, training material, journal articles, books and ILO Conventions. Documents indexed: Journal Articles
link: http://www.ilo.org/dyn/cisdoc/index_html?p_lang=e

title: Civil Engineering Database (CEDB)
description: Provides bibliographic access to all American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) publications, including journals, conference proceedings, books, standards, manuals, magazines, and newspapers. Includes links to fulltext in the ASCE Research Library where available.
link: https://cedb.asce.org/CEDBsearch/

title: Collins multi-language dictionaries (Lexibase)
description: This site may not work properly in Chrome. Please try another browser.
Also, you might encounter a warning about the website's security certificate when trying to access this resource. Please disregard the warning and continue to the website by clicking on the &quot;Ignore&quot; button.

Lexibase is a collection of online reference language dictionaries with access to multiple languages and translations in all directions. These bilingual dictionaries also offer phonetic writing and audio files to learn how to pronounce words in all these languages (by clicking on a word, the option &quot;Speak&quot; appears).

The following multilingual works are included: 
Collins English Dictionary & Thesaurus
Collins English-French / Français-Anglais dictionary
Collins English-German / Deutsch-Englisch dictionary
Collins English-Italian / Italiano-Inglese dictionary
Collins English-Spanish / Español-Inglés dictionary
Collins Français-Allemand / Deutsch-Franzsisch dictionary
Collins Français-Espagnol / Español-Francés dictionary
Collins Français-Italien / Italiano-Francese dictionary
link: https://concordia.dictionary.ent.reverso.net/Home

title: Colonial State Papers
description: ProQuest's Colonial State Papers offers access to over 7,000 hand-written documents and more than 40,000 bibliographic records on Colonial History: American history, British colonial history, Caribbean history, maritime history, Atlantic trade, plantations, and slavery. 

Colonial State Papers integrates two research tools:

Collection CO 1 from The National Archives (full name: Privy Council and related bodies: America and West Indies, Colonial Papers
The Calendar of State Papers, Colonial: North America and the West Indies 1574-1739
Coverage: 1574 - 1757
link: https://search.proquest.com/csp/?accountid=10246

title: Columbia International Affairs Online (CIAO) Journals
description: Comprehensive source for theory and research in international affairs, covering a wide range of scholarship that includes working papers from university research institutes, occasional papers series from NGOs, foundation-funded research projects, proceedings from conferences, books, journals and policy briefs. Coverage: 1991 onwards Update Frequency: Updated Monthly Help Guide: Search Help Site Index Documents indexed: Books, Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Maps, Newspaper articles, Working Papers
link: https://www.ciaonet.org

title: Communication & mass media complete
description: Indexes over 400 hundred journals in communication studies and includes the full-text for two hundred journals. The database is the result of a merger of Commsearch (NCA) and Mass Media Articles Index (University of Pennsylvania). Relevant for all areas of communication studies including cultural communication, media studies, film, journalism and broadcasting. Documents indexed: Journal Articles, Magazine Articles. Offered on the EBSCO platform.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=ufh

title: Communication abstracts
description: Communication Abstracts indexes and abstracts journal articles, books, book chapters and reports in the field of communication studies. It is international in scope and includes general communication, mass communication, organizational communication, radio, television, broadcasting, journalism, public relations, public opinion, advertising, small group communication, interpersonal and intrapersonal communication. Coverage: 1977 onward; Update Frequency: updated six times a year; Documents indexed: Books, Journal Articles, Reports. Offered on the EBSCO platform.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=cax

title: Compendex on Engineering Village
description: Compendex database is the definitive source of engineering information covering the engineering research literature since 1884. A bibliographic database with references to more than 5,000 engineering journals and conferences, this version of Compendex is updated weekly to ensure that you have access to critical new developments in your field. Compendex is the electronic equivalent of the Engineering Index. By default, the database is searched together with INSPEC, but both Compendex and INSPEC can be searched individually by selecting or deselecting one of the databases. Duplicate results can be easily removed. Coverage: 1884 onward; Update Frequency: updated weekly; Documents indexed: Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles

Also known as: EI Compendex
link: https://www.engineeringvillage.com/controller/servlet/Controller?CID=quickSearch&database=1

title: Complete dictionary of scientific biography
description: Provides information on the history of science through articles on the professional lives of scientists. All periods of science from classical antiquity to modern times are represented.   The complete text, equivalent to 26 print volumes, is fully searchable.   Includes extensive bibliographies of the scientists' work and secondary material about them.
link: https://go.gale.com/ps/i.do?p=GVRL&sw=w&u=concordi_main&v=2.1&it=aboutBook&id=GALE%7C9780684315591&sid=bookmark-GVRL

title: Computers & Applied Sciences Complete
description: Covers academic journals, professional publications, and other reference sources in the applied sciences. Subject areas include the many engineering disciplines, computer theory and systems, new technologies, and the social and professional context of the applied sciences. Offered on the EBSCO platform.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=iih

title: Computing reviews
description: Computing Reviews, from the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), provides reviews of books and journal articles in all areas of Computer Science. 
Coverage: 1980 - onward. Update Frequency: Daily.  Documents indexed: Book Reviews
link: https://www.computingreviews.com/

title: Conference Board of Canada: E-data Service
description: The E-data service provides access to national, provincial, and metropolitan economic data (forecast and historical) as well as Business and Consumer confidence data in Canada.
link: https://www.conferenceboard.ca/e-data/education.aspx

title: Contemporary Women's Issues (Gale Primary Sources)
description: International database with a broad based approach to gender-related issues (e.g. development, health, human rights, the workplace, sexuality, violence). Useful for researchers in a wide variety of fields: anthropology, education, political science, sociology, religious studies, etc. Includes Reports (research, survey and statistical data), Journals (both mainstream and alternative) as well as Newsletters, Fact Sheets, Guides, Pamphlets, and Proceedings. Coverage: 1992 onward
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/CWI?u=concordi_main

title: CPA Canada Standards and Guidance Collection (CICA)
description: The CPA Canada Standards and Guidance Collection contains documentation from the Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada (CPA Canada), including the CPA Canada Handbook. Documents indexed: Standards

Also known as: Knotia
link: https://edu.knotia.ca

title: CPI.Q (Canadian Periodical Index)
description: Gale Onefile's CPI.Q provides coverage of all subject areas with an emphasis on Canadian and international issues. It provides citations and some full-text to more than 1,000 English and French language journals and magazines, including some American titles and approximately 80 business periodicals. It also provides full text of selected Globe & Mail articles. Coverage: Index: 1980 onward. Full-text generally begins in 1983 (coverage varies depending on the journal title). Documents indexed: Film Reviews, Journal Articles, Magazine Articles, Newspaper articles
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/CPI?u=concordi_main

title: CRCnetBASE
description: CRCnetBASE is a multi-disciplinary research platform with more than 6000 online books that span over 40 disciplines. In addition to e-books published under the imprint CRC Press, CRC netBASE also includes online references from Auerbach and Chapman & Hall. Concordia subscribes to only some of the content in this database.
link: https://www.taylorfrancis.com/search?subject=SCEC&key=&isFullAccessOnly=true

title: CREPUQ's DLI statistical and geographic data
description: CREPUQ's repository of DLI (Data Liberation Initiative) statistical and geographic products. Most tables are available either in Excel or Beyond 20/20 formats. Some of the main products are: Canadian Centre for Justice Statistics data, Energy Statistics Handbook, Exports and Imports by country and commodity, Labour Force Historical Review, Survey of Household Spending Data (SHS) and Census geographic files Documents indexed: Maps, Statistics
link: https://ivt.bibl.ulaval.ca

title: Criterion on Demand
description: Online digital library of over 2,700 feature film titles licensed for streaming viewing. The title selection, in English and  French, includes 1920 classics, new releases, foreign films, literary adaptations, documentaries, animated titles, and independent features. Criterion-on-Demand represents a large number of feature film producers, including, but not limited to:  

Paramount Pictures
Paramount Vantage
DreamWorks SKG
Mongrel Media
Sony Pictures Classics
Alliance Films
Miramax Films
Warner Brothers
Lionsgate Films

Also known as: CoD
link: https://media3.criterionpic.com/cod/lcl_top_subjects.htx

title: CRSP - Center for Research in Security Prices database at CHASS
description: NYSE, AMEX, and NASDAQ daily and monthly security prices and other historical data related to over 24,000 companies.   Coverage is as follows: NYSE - monthly data begins December 1925, daily begins July 1962   AMEX - monthly and daily data begin July 1962   NASDAQ - monthly and daily data begin December, 14 1972.
link: https://clouddc.chass.utoronto.ca/crsp/

title: CSA OnDemand
description: Contains over 3,000 current and historic standards from the Canadian Standards Association (CSA) in English and French, plus various CSA Codes and Manuals. New standards are added as they are published.

Note: Standards can be viewed online, as well as downloaded in PDF format. PDFs must be opened in Adobe Acrobat. If you try and access a downloaded PDF standard in your browser, you will see the message &quot;This document is protected&quot;. If your browser opens the PDF automatically, you may need to go into your Downloads folder and open the document in Adobe Acrobat from there.
link: https://store.csagroup.org/ondemand/s/?language=en_US

title: Curio.ca
description: Subscription on a trial basis until August 31, 2024.

Curio.ca provides streaming access to television and radio documentaries, news reports, archival material, stock shots and more. Most content is produced by the CBC and Radio-Canada. Concordia has access to two collections: Curio.ca and News in Review.

Also known as: Curio
link: https://curio.ca

title: Dance Online: Dance in video
description: From the ballets of Stravinsky to documentaries on William Forsythe and Merce Cunningham, and spanning the 1950s to today, Dance in Video offers more than 500 hours of streaming video available electronically for the first time. The collection covers ballet, tap, jazz, contemporary, experimental, and improvisational dance, as well as forerunners of the forms and the pioneers of modern concert dance.
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/daiv

title: Dead Sea Scrolls Electronic Library Non-Biblical Texts
description: Complete Hebrew transcription and English translation of the Non-Biblical text from the Dead Sea Scrolls. Contains high-resolution photographs of the Dead Sea Scroll fragments. The Brill Text Tool, a Chrome browser extension, can be used with this library to offer grammatical information on the biblical Hebrew.
link: https://scholarlyeditions.brill.com/dsno/

title: Defining gender (1450-1910)
description: Part of Adam Matthew Digital Collections. Defining gender is a collection of ephemera, pamphlets, exam papers, commonplace books, diaries, periodicals, letters, ledgers, account books, educational practice and pedagogy, government papers from the British Home Office and Metropolitan police, illustrated writings on anatomy, midwifery, art and fashion, manuscript journals, poetry, novels, ballads, drama, receipt books, literary manuscripts, travel writing, and conduct and advice literature. Access to Defining Gender (1450-1910) is provided through the Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN).
link: https://www.gender.amdigital.co.uk/

title: Design and applied arts index (DAAI)
description: Design and Applied Arts Index is an international index to design and craft journals. It currently contains over 110,000 annotated references from more than 450 design and craft journals published since 1973 (most articles date rom 1987 onward), and data on over 47,000 designers, craftspeople, studios, workshops, firms, etc. All areas of design and craft are covered including industrial design, architecture, interior design, environmental design, computer-aided design, furniture design, ceramics, glass, jewellry, metalsmithing, silversmithing, goldsmithing, fashion design, textile design, embroidery, graphic design, multimedia design, illustration, book design, photography, retail design, exhibition design, design and craft history, design and craft theory, ergonomics, design and craft education and design management. Coverage: 1987 onward; Update Frequency: Updated monthly; Documents indexed: Journal Articles. Hosted on the ProQuest platform.
link: https://search.proquest.com/daai/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Dictionary of Canadian biography online
description: Authoritative biographical information for notable Canadians and other historical figures who are part of Canada's past.  Detailed biographies of major figures complete with extensive bibliographical references, and short biographies of many lesser known figures. Topical searches can be performed on the entire contents. Includes a photo gallery. NOTE: be aware that the search is &quot;accent-sensitive&quot;, e.g. the last name &quot;Vallee&quot; will not be found but &quot;Vallée&quot; will. You can also choose the first letter of the last name from a list and then browse. Coverage: Death date up to 1920
link: http://www.biographi.ca/

title: Dictionary of Irish Biography
description: A definitive collection of over 9,000 biographies of Irish men and women issued by the Royal Irish Academy in collaboration with Cambridge University Press.
link: https://www.dib.ie/

title: Dictionary of Old English (DOE)
description: The Dictionary of Old English (DOE) defines the vocabulary of the first six centuries (C.E. 600-1150) of the English language. The Dictionary of Old English: A to H online includes the first release of the letter H, containing some 2,956 headwords, as well as revised versions of the eight previously published fascicles (1986-2007). Produced with the support of the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada and the National Endowment for the Humanites, and published by the Centre for Medieval Studies at the University of Toronto.
link: https://tapor.library.utoronto.ca/doe/

title: Dictionary of Old English Web Corpus (DOEC)
description: The Dictionary of Old English Web Corpus is a complete record of surviving Old English (full text of all existing Old English documents). It is an online database consisting of at least one copy of every surviving Old English text. In some cases, more than one copy is included, if it is significant because of dialect or date. As such, the DOE Web Corpus represents over three million words of Old English and fewer than a million words of Latin, or almost five times the collected works of Shakespeare. Produced with the support of the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada and the National Endowment for the Humanites, and published by the Centre for Medieval Studies at the University of Toronto. Documents indexed: Books, Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc)
link: https://tapor.library.utoronto.ca/doecorpus/

title: Dictionary of substances and their effects
description: Dictionary of toxic substances and the effects on living creatures. Documents indexed: Books
link: https://www.rsc.org/Publishing/CurrentAwareness/DOSE/index.asp

title: Digital National Security Archive (DNSA)
description: The Digital National Security Archive contains a collection of declassified U.S. foreign policy documents.  The National Security Archive was founded in 1985, and has acquired these documents through the Freedom of Information Act. This database of primary sources includes more than 43,000 of the most important declassified documents regarding critical U.S. foreign policy decisions. The archive is divided into collections, for example:   Guatemala and the U.S., 1954-1999     Berlin Crisis, 1958-1962   China and the U.S., 1960-1998    Iraqgate, 1980-1994     Nicaragua, 1978-1990    South Africa, 1962-1989     the Soviet Estimate, 1947-1991    and more ...      The Library subscribes to some of the collections. Documents indexed: Government Documents
link: https://search.proquest.com/dnsa/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Direction of trade statistics (DOTS) online
description: DOTS provides data on the value of merchandise exports and imports between each country and all its trading partners. The database includes: total bilateral and multilateral exports and imports aggregated at national or regional group level  data for the most recent six quarters and the latest year for 169 countries, and ten quarters and five years for the world and area tables. Coverage: 1980 to the present Updated monthly. Also known as DTS or  IMF Direction of trade statistics online
link: https://data.imf.org/?sk=9d6028d4-f14a-464c-a2f2-59b2cd424b85

title: Directory of Open Access Journals  - DOAJ Free Journals
description: DOAJ, the Directory of Open Access Journals, is a collection of full-text e-journals
link: https://www.doaj.org/

title: DMTI Spatial
description: Please contact Alex Guindon (alex.guindon@concordia.ca) to obtain additional datasets.
The following products are available: CanMap Streetfiles for Canada,   CanMap RouteLogistics for Canada,   Canadian Atlas Map Bundle,   Enhanced Postal Code file for Canada,   Forward Sortation Area File for Canada,   GeoPinpoint Geocoding Software,   CanMap Rail for Canada,   30 Meter Digital Elevation Model Data for Canada,   90 Meter Digital Elevation Model Data for Canada,   30 Meter Clutter Data for Canada,   90 Meter Clutter Data for Canada,   Enhanced Point of Interest File for Canada,   CanMap Parks for Canada,   CanMap Water for Canada V 2.0. - Also known as  DMTI geospatial data;SMART Consortium;CanMap;Equinox.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/geospatial-data/dmti.html

title: Docuseek2 Canadian Collection
description: Docuseek2 is a streaming video database of documentaries by independent filmmakers and larger producers alike. The collection's focus is on contemporary social issues in a variety of disciplines, including environmental sciences, political and social sciences, history, health, psychology, and more. Producers include Bullfrog Films, dGenerate Films, Fanlight Productions, Icarus Films, Kartemquin, and the National Film Board of Canada.

Also know as: Docuseek
link: https://docuseek2.com/ds-ca2

title: Docuseek2 Global Environmental Justice Documentaries Collection
description: The Global Environmental Justice Documentaries Collection includes 46 films that explore human rights and environmental protection issues triggered by inequality, global development and climate change.

Also known as: Docuseek
link: https://docuseek2.com/gj-gej

title: Doing Business (World Bank)
description: Free country reports as well as data and analysis from the World Bank and the International Finance Corporation. Launched in 2002,  The Doing Business Project provides objective measures of business regulations and their enforcement across 183 economies and selected cities at the subnational and regional level. Economic data and analysis is presented by country or by topic. Topics include: Starting a Business;  Dealing with Construction Permits; Getting Electricity; Registering Property; Getting Credit; Protecting Investors;  Paying Taxes; Trading Across Borders; Enforcing Contracts; Resolving Insolvency.
link: https://www.doingbusiness.org/

title: Drama Online
description: Drama Online contains hundreds of plays from the very earliest Greek works right up to the present day, in text, video, and audio formats. In addition to streaming media, Drama Online also includes ebooks that offer contextual information on playwrights, theatre movements, genres, practitioners and periods; as well as practical guides on acting and stage craft. For instructors, subject guides and other teaching tools offer a shortcut to identifying which content on the platform might be of interest.

We are currently subscribing to these sub-collections within Drama Online:

Core Collection
Nick Hern Books
The Donmar Shakespeare Trilogy on Screen  
Shakespeare’s Globe on Screen 1 and 2
Critical Studies & Performance Practice


Visit the Help page for a quick overview of how to use Drama Online.
link: https://www.dramaonlinelibrary.com/

title: Drama Online: Shakespeare’s Globe on Screen 1 (2008-2015)
description: This is a collection of 21 live performances of Shakespeare at the Globe Theatre. 

Included in this collection:
A Midsummer Night's Dream
All's Well That Ends Well
Antony and Cleopatra
As You Like It
Doctor Faustus
Henry IV, Part 1
Henry IV, Part 2
Henry V
Henry VIII
Julius Caesar
Love's Labour's Lost
Macbeth
Much Ado About Nothing
Othello
Romeo and Juliet
The Comedy of Errors
The Merry Wives of Windsor
The Taming of the Shrew
The Tempest
Titus Andronicus
Twelfth Night
link: https://www.dramaonlinelibrary.com/shakespeares-globe-on-screen

title: Drama Online: Shakespeare’s Globe on Screen 2 (2016-2018)
description: Shakespeare’s Globe on Screen 2 is a collection of streaming videos that capture live performances from the Globe's 2016 - 2018 seasons.

Included in this collection:
A Midsummer Night's Dream
Hamlet
King Lear
Measure for Measure
Richard II
The Duchess of Malfi
The Merchant of Venice
The Two Noble Kinsmen
Twelfth Night
link: https://www.dramaonlinelibrary.com/custom-browse?docid=shakespearesGlobeOnScreen12

title: Drama Online: the Donmar Shakespeare Trilogy
description: This collection, on Bloomsbury Drama Online, contains 3 productions (Julius Caesar, Henry IV and The Tempest), all set in a women's prison. Directed by Harriet Walker and featuring an all-female cast.
link: https://www.dramaonlinelibrary.com/search-results?au=Donmar%20Warehouse

title: e-Duke Journals Scholarly Collection: Expanded
description: The eDuke Journals Scholarly Collection: Expanded includes online access to 60 Duke humanities and social sciences journals.
link: https://read.dukeupress.edu/journals/pages/Browse_by_Title

title: Early Canadiana Online (ECO) - Ebooks
description: Documents Canadian history from the time of the first European settlers up to the early 20th Century. This collection of books, pamphlets and government publications, is strong in literature, women's history, native studies, travel and exploration, and the history of French Canada. Includes lesson plans for high school students. Coverage: 16th - early 20th century. Access to Early Canadiana Online is provided thanks to the Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN).
link: https://eco.canadiana.ca

title: Early encounters in North America
description: Assembled from hundreds of primary sources, this project documents the relationships among peoples from 1534 to 1850. The collection presents the perspectives of traders, slaves, missionaries, explorers, soldiers, officials, and others. It includes works by American Indians, Canadian First Peoples, and many European groups. The collection includes nearly 1,000 prints, drawings, paintings, maps, bibliographies, letters, photographs, and original facsimile pages. ----  NOTE: This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections. Coverage: 1534-1850 NOTE: If you are experiencing problems accessing the content from off-campus, please delete your browser's cookies and temporary internet files. Documents indexed: Art Reproductions, Books, Essays, Maps, Pamphlets
link: https://eena.alexanderstreet.com/

title: Early English books online - EEBO
description: Early English Books Online, 1475-1700 (EEBO) provides digital access to the full-text and full-images of printed books listed in Pollard and Redgraves Short Title Catalogue of Books Printed in England, Scotland, & Ireland and of English Books Printed Abroad, 1475-1640 (STC I) and in Donald Wings Short Title Catalogue of Books Printed in England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales, and British America, and of English Books Printed in Other Countries, 1641-1700 (STC II).   EEBO contains the full-text and full-images of the Thomason Tracts, a collection of 22,000 broadsides ranging from political speeches to religious tracts to newspaper articles from the period 1640-1661. EEBO includes the Early English Books Tract Supplement containing broadsides, pamphlets and scrapbooks primarily from the British Library. Documents indexed: Books, Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc)
link: https://search.proquest.com/eebo/index

title: Early English books online - Text Creation Partnership (TCP)
description: Early English Books Online  Text Creation Partnership (TCP) contains the fully searchable full text of the first 25,000 texts that have been transcribed and encoded into regular text by the Text Creation Partnership, Phase I, which is now freely available under the Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication (CC0 1.0 Universal).

Early English Books Online, 1475-1700 (EEBO)provides digital access to the full-text and full-images of printed books listed in Pollard and Redgraves Short Title Catalogue of Books Printed in England, Scotland, & Ireland and of English Books Printed Abroad, 1475-1640 (STC I) and in Donald Wings Short Title Catalogue of Books Printed in England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales, and British America, and of English Books Printed in Other Countries, 1641-1700 (STC II). EEBO contains the full-text and full-images of the Thomason Tracts, a collection of 22,000 broadsides ranging from political speeches to religious tracts to newspaper articles from the period 1640-1661. EEBO includes the Early English Books Tract Supplement containing broadsides, pamphlets and scrapbooks primarily from the British Library. Documents indexed: Books, Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc)
link: https://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/eebogroup/

title: East India Company
description: This is a collection of primary source documents from the India Office Records at the British Library, London. Containing royal charters, correspondence, trading diaries, minutes of council meetings and reports of expeditions, and a trading visualization tool, this resource charts the history of British trade and rule in the Indian subcontinent and beyond from 1595 to 1947. An Adam Matthew Digital Collection.
link: https://www.eastindiacompany.amdigital.co.uk

title: Ebook Central (ProQuest)
description: E-book platform. 

 Note: for information about the availability of a title on EBook Central, including how many copies Concordia owns, see “Availability” on the book details page. 

Also known as: Ebrary
link: https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/concordia-ebooks

title: eBooks on EBSCOhost
description: E-books hosted on the EBSCO platform providing access to the complete contents of recently published books in several disciplines. Formerly known as NetLibrary.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=nlebk

title: EconLit
description: Citations with selected abstracts to literature in the field of economics. Includes journal articles, dissertations, working papers, conference proceedings, book chapters and essays. International in scope. Coverage: 1969 onward; Update Frequency: updated monthly; Documents indexed: Conference Proceedings, Essays, Journal Articles, Theses & Dissertations, Working Papers;
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=ecn

title: Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) Viewpoint
description: EIU Viewpoint covers the political, policy, business and economic outlook for nearly 200 countries and 26 sectors across six major industries, focusing on dynamics that could impact an organization

IMPORTANT: Changes have been made to &quot;Country Profile&quot;: the database still gives access to Country Profiles (dating back to 1996), but for 2009 forward EIU is incorporating the Country Profile into the Country Report. Full-text reports and statistics for 200 countries and regions categorized in the following sections:  

ViewsWire: Daily business intelligence and summary analysis
Country Report: In-depth analysis of political and economic trends with some future forecasts and
Country Profile: Background and historical context of current economic and political events. 

Coverage: 1996 onward (may vary with report series) 
Update Frequency: ViewsWire (daily), Country Report (monthly), Country Profile (annually) 

Documents indexed: Reports, Statistics
link: http://viewswire.eiu.com

title: EDGAR - Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system
description: Free resource providing reports and filings submitted by US publicly traded companies to the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
link: https://www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml

title: Editoria Italiana Online (EIO)
description: EIO is a collection of research texts from over 170 Italian academic publishers. Content is multidisciplinary but with a particular focus on the Humanities and Social Sciences. Accessed on the Torrossa Digital Library platform.
link: https://access.torrossa.com/

title: Education Source
description: Education Source offers a complete collection of full-text education journals. It encompasses an international array of English-language periodicals, monographs, yearbooks, and many unique sources that were never previously available, covering all levels of education--from early childhood to higher education--as well as all educational specialties, such as multilingual education, health education and testing. This database includes the content of Education Full-Text (H.W. Wilson) and Education Research Complete (EBSCO) which represents access to over 1,700 full-text journals. To search Education Source together with ERIC, select both databases from the &quot;Choose Databases&quot; Selection Area at the top of the main menu. Formerly known as Education Research Complete;Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson);
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=eue

title: Edward Elgar Business and Management eBook Collection
description: A collection of full-text scholarly ebooks in Business and Management.
link: https://www.elgaronline.com/browse?access=user

title: Eighteenth Century Collections Online
description: Includes every significant English-language and foreign-language title printed in Great Britain during the eighteenth century, along with thousands of important works from the Americas. Concordia's holdings include Parts I and II. Also known as 18th Century Collections Online;ECCO
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/ECCO?u=concordi_main

title: Eighteenth century journals I & II
description: Part of the Adam Matthew Digital Collection, Eighteenth Century Journals I is a digital library consisting of 95 periodicals from the Hope Collection at the Bodleian Library, Oxford.  Coverage is from 1693 to 1793. Eighteenth Century Journals II consists of 17th and 18th century newspapers and periodicals from the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center at the University of Texas at Austin. Coverage is from 1699 to 1812. Access to Eighteenth Century Journals I & II is provided through a Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN) agreement. Coverage: c. 1685-1812. Also known as 18th century journals.
link: https://www.18thcjournals.amdigital.co.uk/

title: Electronic Arts Intermix Educational Streaming (EAI)
description: NOTE: Subscription on a trial basis until December 31, 2024.  

Electronic Arts Intermix (EAI) is a nonprofit organization that fosters the creation, exhibition, distribution and preservation of media art produced from the 1960s to the present. Their educational streaming site contains a selection of videos by contemporary artists including Merce Cunningham, Pipilotti Rist, Dan Graham, Eleanor Antin, Ryan Trecartin, and the Wooster Group. Streaming access is available for over 500 titles. 

To view available videos, please click on the artists' names on the homepage. The basic and advanced search functions will pull up results from the entire EAI catalog, which includes titles that are not available on the streaming site.

Also known as: EAI
link: https://www.eai.org/education

title: Emerald Business, Management and Economics eBook Collection
description: A collection of full-text e-books in Business, Management, and Economics.
link: https://www.emerald.com/insight

title: Emerald Engineering Library
description: This full-text journal database collection provides online access to the abstracts and full text of all the journals within Emerald's engineering, materials science and technology portfolio.
link: https://www.emerald.com/insight

title: Emerald Management 120 (MCB Press)
description: A collection of journals covering a variety of disciplines including management, marketing, accounting, library science, education and information technology. Documents indexed: Journal Articles
link: https://www.emerald.com/insight

title: Empire online
description: Empire Online is a collection of original documents, including maps, manuscripts, pamphlets, paintings, drawings and rare books, in colonial history. Coverage from 1492 through 20th century. Thematic sections include scholarly essays on: Cultural Contacts,  Literature, The Visual Empire  Exhibitions  Religion  Race, Class, Colonialism and Imperialism. This is an Adam Matthew Digital collection. Access to Empire Online is provided through a Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN) agreement.
link: https://www.empire.amdigital.co.uk/

title: Encyclopaedia of occupational health and safety
description: Comprehensive encyclopaedia on occupational health and safety issues. Produced by the International Labour Organization (ILO).
link: http://www.iloencyclopaedia.org/

title: Encyclopedia of applied physics
description: Provides the basic principles and in-depth coverage of all technically pertinent areas of modern-day physics, coupled with technological applications from real life. It originally appeared in print in 23 volumes plus 2 update volumes, covering some 15,500 pages and over 650 articles with a total of 7,800 figures and 980 tables. The Encyclopedia comprehensively covers such specific topics as: optics, laser physics, solid state and semiconductor physics, atom and nuclear physics, and biophysics. A glossary covers over 6,000 terms related to the field. Update Frequency: regularly: articles are added on a monthly basis
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/book/10.1002/3527600434

title: Encyclopedia of ecology
description: Broad and inclusive coverage of ecology, with an emphasis on holistic perspectives.
link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/referenceworks/9780080454054

title: Encyclopedia of inorganic chemistry
description: Encompasses the whole of inorganic chemistry, including Bioinorganic Chemistry, Physical and Theoretical Methods, Organometallic Chemistry, Solid State Chemistry, Main Group Elements, Transition Metals.
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/book/10.1002/0470862106

title: Encyclopedia of life sciences
description: Spanning the entire spectrum of life science research, the Encyclopedia features more than 3,000 specially commissioned and peer-reviewed articles. These concentrate primarily on the molecular and cellular life sciences, including biochemical topics, methods and techniques. Applied areas of science are also included on a selective basis, as are biographies and general interest articles on ethics and the history of science. Note that Concordia Libraries have access to articles published up to 2012. The publication date is given in the article's abstract.
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/book/10.1002/047001590X

title: Encyclopedia of public administration and public policy (2nd edition)
description: More than 4000 references and nearly 300 entries that cover: Processes, methods, and influential ideas from &quot;Achieving Productivity&quot; and &quot;Game Theory&quot; to &quot;Uncertainty in Decision Making&quot; and &quot;Win-Win Approaches to International Peace&quot;  Policy decisions and histories in fields such as privatization, biomedical ethics, education, diversity, and judicial ethics   Watershed decisions and policies, spanning the Nuremberg trials to the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 and recent budget reconciliation bills and the Current administrative practices and models with articles such as &quot;Types of Organizational Theories,&quot; &quot;Electronic Government,&quot; and &quot;Economic Theories of Administration&quot;. Update Frequency: quarterly throughout the year
link: https://www.taylorfrancis.com/books/edit/10.1081/E-EPAP3/encyclopedia-public-administration-public-policy-third-edition-domonic-bearfield-melvin-dubnick

title: Encyclopedia of RF and microwave engineering
description: Containing over 400 articles, the Encyclopedia is designed as a compendium of theory, design methods, and applications as well as an examination of technologies and future trends. Each article includes an overview of each subject, followed by in-depth descriptions of important theory, technology developments, and applications. Each article is written for both non-specialists who require an overview of a subject and specialists who need in-depth information. All articles are self-contained, complete with their own reference lists. Features such key topics as Electromagnetics, Wave Propagation, RF Circuits, RF Receivers, Microwave Antennas, RF and Microwave Photonics, CAD Techniques and Modeling, Noise, Communications Systems, Radio Technologies, Remote Sensing, and more. Update Frequency: regularly: articles are added on a monthly basis
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/book/10.1002/0471654507

title: Encyclopedia of social psychology
description: The Encyclopedia of Social Psychology includes more than 600 entries explaining key concepts in the field, their background, significance and inter-relationships, contributed by a diverse team of international experts.
link: https://sk.sagepub.com/reference/socialpsychology

title: Encyclopedia of statistical sciences
description: The online version of the Encyclopedia of Statistical Sciences, Second Edition thoroughly updates the original edition published in 1982. With approximately 3,000 referenced articles, it provides extensive coverage of statistical theory, methods, and applications. In addition to the main selections, which feature discussions of developments in various branches of the statistical sciences, users will find a series of shorter entries ranging from the lives of pioneers in statistics, updates of popular methodologies, and reviews of statistical agencies and journals. Fully searchable by keyword, author, and title, articles in the Encyclopedia of Statistical Sciences can also be browsed by title. NOTE: this online version corresponds to 16 volumes of the print reference.
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/book/10.1002/0471667196

title: Encyclopedia of the Bible and its reception online
description: Documents the history of the Bibles reception in Judaism and Christianity as evident in exegetical literature, theological and philosophical writings of various genres, literature, liturgy, music, the visual arts, dance, and film, as well as in Islam and other religious traditions and contemporary movements.
link: https://www.degruyter.com/db/ebr

title: Energy Citations Database
description: Energy Citations Database is produced by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Scientific and Technical Information (OSTI) and includes bibliographic records of literature in disciplines of interest to the DOE such as chemistry, physics, materials, environmental science, geology, engineering, mathematics, climatology, oceanography, computer science and related disciplines. It includes citations to report literature, conference papers, journal articles, books, dissertations, and patents. Coverage: 1948 onward; Documents indexed: Books, Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Patents, Reports, Theses & Dissertations
link: https://www.osti.gov/energycitations/

title: Engineering Village
description: Engineering Village is a platform that hosts three bibliographic databases. They are: Compendex, Inspec and Geobase. The databases can be searched individually or in combination.
link: https://www.engineeringvillage.com/controller/servlet/Controller?CID=quickSearch&database=all

title: ENGnetBASE (Engineering Handbooks Online)
description: Full-text of 285 engineering handbooks and reference titles on all aspects of engineering via the CRCnetBASE platform. These ebooks are published by CRC Press. 2014 content only.
link: https://www.taylorfrancis.com/search?subject=SCEC&isFullAccessOnly=true&key=&collection=WB004

title: Entertainment Industry Magazine Archive
description: An archival research resource containing the essential primary sources for studying the history of the film and entertainment industries, from the era of vaudeville and silent movies through to 2000. The core US and UK trade magazines covering film, music, broadcasting and theater are all included, together with film fan magazines and music press titles. Magazines (including Variety, New Musical Express, Picturegoer, Billboard, Backstage, Box Office, The Stage and others) have been scanned cover-to-cover in high-resolution color, with granular indexing of all articles, covers, ads and reviews.
link: https://search.proquest.com/eima/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Entrepreneurial Studies Source
description: Covers periodicals, reference books, case studies, company profiles and videos on topics relevant to entrepreneurship and small businesses.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=ent

title: Environment Complete
description: Offers extensive coverage in the areas of agriculture, ecosystem ecology, energy, and affiliated areas of study. Offering full text and indexing for journals, books and monographs, Documents indexed: Books, Journal Articles
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?profile=ehost&defaultdb=eih&authtype=ip&custid=s4759561

title: ERIC on EBSCO
description: ERIC, the Education Resource Information Center, contains more than 1,300,000 records and links to more than 317,000 full-text documents dating back to 1966 (on the Ebsco platform).
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=eric

title: ERIC on ProQuest
description: ERIC Online covers over  885 current journals in education and related disciplines, the majority of which are peer reviewed. Provides comprehensive coverage of topics in early childhood education, elementary education, secondary education, as well as adult education and higher education. Alternate access to ERIC is available from the following site: http://www.eric.ed.gov/
link: https://search.proquest.com/eric/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Erudit Scholarly Journals - CRKN
description: Érudit is a portal providing access to the fulltext of scholarly articles and theses in French. It is a multidisciplinary resource covering human, social and natural sciences. The archives of the journals are freely available, but access to the fulltext of the articles published in the last 2 years is restricted to Concordia students, faculty and staff. Documents indexed: Books, Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Theses & Dissertations, Working Papers
link: https://www.erudit.org/

title: eStatement Studies
description: eStatement Studies, by the Risk Management Association (RMA), provides composite financial data from over 190,000 anonymous financial statements of manufacturing, wholesaling, retailing, service, and contracting businesses operating in 600 industries. Designed to be particularly useful to lending and credit risk professionals who want to compare one company's performance relative to other companies in the same line of business. Also known as RMAU Online.
link: https://eStatementStudies.rmahq.org/iplogin

title: Ethnographic Video Online vol. III: Indigenous Voices
description: Documentaries, feature films and shorts made by and for Indigenous peoples and communities. Topics include climate change, sustainability, Indigenous and local histories, cultural change, and traditional knowledge and storytelling.  Contributors include: Hopi filmmaker Victor Masayesva, Samoan ethnographer Galumalemana Steven Percival, native Hawaiian director Eddie Kamae, and First Nations filmmaker Alanis Obomsawin, Vision Maker Media, the Secretariat of the Pacific Community, the Indigenous Film Archive of Nepal, the Mexican Film Institute, and the NFB.
link: https://video-alexanderstreet-com.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/channel/ethnographic-video-online-indigenous-voices

title: Ethnographic video online: Volumes I & II: Foundational Films
description: Includes classic works from ethnographic filmmakers such as Robert Flaherty, Timothy Asch, Margaret Mead, John Marshall, Robert Gardner, Jean Rouch, and more.  From the earliest days of film and recording equipment in the field.
link: https://video-alexanderstreet-com.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/channel/ethnographic-video-online-foundational-films

title: ETHXWeb
description: Bibliographic database prepared by the Library and Information Services group of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics, Georgetown University. ETHXWeb is derived from the work of the National Reference Center for Bioethics Literature (NRCBL), supported by the Extramural Programs Office of the National Library of Medicine (U.S.).   It is a bibliographic database with citations to journal articles, book chapters, bills, laws, court decisions, reports, books, audio-visuals, and news articles relating to bioethics and professional ethics. Coverage: Most journal article records are from 1988 to the present, but approximately 12 per cent are prior to 1988. Books and audiovisuals acquired since 1975 are now in the database. Update Frequency: monthly; Documents indexed: Audiovisual Media, Books, Government Documents, Journal Articles, Newspaper articles
link: http://bioethics.georgetown.edu/databases/ethxweb/

title: Eureka.cc
description: Provides full text access to English and French language Canadian newspapers, magazines, newswires, blogs and broadcast transcripts. A valuable source for regional and local Canadian news coverage. Also provides access to international and U.S. newspapers and news media. Note: some content is abstract-only. If you are directed to an outside source (i.e. a newspaper website), the content is not included in Eureka and you may need to search Sofia to access the content via Concordia's subscription (if applicable).

Also know as: Eureka
link: https://nouveau.eureka.cc/access/ip/default.aspx?un=concor00

title: European Sources Online
description: Online database and information service providing access to information on the institutions and activities of the European Union, the countries, regions and other international organisations of Europe, and on issues of importance to European researchers, citizens and stakeholders. Resources include: websites, documents and publications from the EU and other organisations, national governments, think tanks, working papers and, full text articles.
link: http://www.europeansources.info

title: European Views of the Americas: 1493 to 1750
description: This bibliographic database is a digitized version of European Americana: A Chronological Guide to Works Printed In Europe Relating to The Americas, 1493-1750. The bibliography contains more than 32,000 entries and includes the history of European exploration as well as portrayals of native American peoples. The resource also covers a wide range of topics from natural disasters to disease outbreaks and slavery.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=hev

title: Factiva
description: WARNING: Data mining and excessive downloading are prohibited and such activities cause the suspension of this service to the entire Concordia Community. This resource is licensed for authorized users of Concordia University Libraries and is intended for educational or research purposes only. Commercial use of this resource is not permitted. Please review Concordia's Database Usage Guidelines
Access to the full-text of international newspapers (Times London, New York Times, Washington Post, Guardian UK, Le Monde, Le Figaro, Globe and Mail, Winnipeg Free Press, etc.) including 500 newswires (Reuters, Associated Press), broadcast transcripts (BBC, NPR, CNN etc), magazines, Reuters photos, and business information sources for a total of approximately 9000 sources.  The Companies/Markets search provides a snapshot of a company, including financial data, industry comparison, stock quotes and charting, and recent news. Financial data is usually limited to 2 to 3 years of financial statistics, and stock prices go back 5 years. For more extensive data, use Mergent Online.. Also known as Factiva.com.
link: https://global.factiva.com/en/sess/login.asp?xsid=S00YszkYszoZGb75DEs5DEnM92uMpIpNpNyMHmnRsIuMcNG1pRRQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQQAA

title: FAOSTAT (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations Statistics Division)
description: FAOSTAT provides statistical data that can be browsed, searched, compared, and downloaded. Major data domains include production, trade, prices, investment, emissions (agriculture), emissions (land use), food balances, agri-environmental indicators, food security, inputs, population, forestry, ASTI R&D indicators, and emergency response.  Data coverage: 1961-2013.
link: http://faostat3.fao.org/home/E

title: Federal Corporations Data On-Line
description: The Federal Corporations Data On-Line database contains all companies registered at the federal level, whatever their size or number of sales. Currently, there are more than 400,000 companies listed in the database, and it is updated daily. The database can be searched and sorted by either corporate name or number. The results can include corporate names (old and new), corporation number, address, directors, annual return/annual summary, financial reports, amalgamations, and parent/subsidiary information. The corporation act, creation date, and corporation status are also included in the results. In English and French. Update Frequency: updated daily
link: http://strategis.ic.gc.ca/cgi-bin/sc_mrksv/corpdir/dataOnline/corpns_se

title: FIAF International Index to Film Periodicals Journals
description: International Index to Film Periodicals, produced by the International Federation of Film Archives, provides access to citations on film and television from over 200 international journals through the International Index to Film Periodicals and International Index to Television Periodicals databases. It also includes Treasures from the Film Archives database which provides information on the holdings of approximately 21,000 silent films (silent shorts and features, fiction and non-fiction) in over 70 international film archives. Coverage: 1972 onward; Update Frequency: Updated biannually; Documents indexed: Journal Articles
link: https://search.proquest.com/fiaf?accountid=10246

title: Film & television literature index
description: Provides indexing and abstracts for hundreds of publications related to film and television studies, including peer-reviewed journals, trade magazines, and popular sources. Subjects covered: cinematography, film and television theory, preservation and restoration, production, reviews, screenwriting, and technical aspects. Approximately one third of entries indexed link directly to full-text on EBSCO host.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=fah

title: Film Index International
description: Descriptions and synopsis of over 90,000 films with international coverage from the 1930s to the present and biographical information covering approximately 40,000 personalities. Includes feature films, Hollywood entertainment shorts, documentaries and TV movies. References to articles from over 900 periodicals with emphasis on British, French and U.S. publications. Coverage is selective. Coverage: 1930 onward; Documents indexed: Filmographies, Journal Articles, Magazine Articles. Part of ProQuest Arts Databases.
link: https://search.proquest.com/fii?accountid=10246

title: Films on Demand: Master Academic Collection
description: Films on Demand's Master Academic Collection is a large collection of streaming video documentaries, feature films and programs by major producers. The content of this collection is relevant to many academic disciplines: business and economics; humanities and social sciences; science and mathematics; and health and medicine. Also included in the 42,000 titles is archival footage and current & historical newsreels.

Also known as: FOD
link: https://fod.infobase.com

title: Films on Demand: World Cinema Collection
description: The World Cinema Collection, on the Films on Demand streaming platform, includes 1,053 international feature films, including masterpieces of the 20th century, and a number of foreign language films (from the silent era to present). Includes works of importance from Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, and North America.

Also known as: Films on Demand, FOD
link: https://fod.infobase.com/PortalPlayLists.aspx?wid=99219&level=Subject&sid=1709

title: Financial reporting in Canada  (IFRS)
description: Comprehensive reference guide on international financial reporting in Canada: latest techniques, terminology, and overall trends in Canadian financial reporting practices. Part of the CICA Handbook Collection. Coverage: Canada Documents indexed: Reports
link: https://edu.knotia.ca/knowledge/Home.aspx?productid=864

title: Financial Times (FT) Historical Archive (Gale Primary Sources)
description: A fully-searchable facsimile edition of the Financial Times offering the complete run of the London edition of the paper, from its first issue in 1888 up to four years ago. Each individual article, advertisement and market listing is included and shown individually and in the context of the full page and issue of the day.
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/FTHA?u=concordi_main

title: FindArticles
description: FindArticles is a free Internet-searchable database of fulltext articles on a range of topics, including business, health, society, entertainment, and sports. Articles dating back to 1998 originate from more than 300 magazines and journals, some of which have academic content. Searches can be carried out either on the full database, selected specific subject areas, or within a particular magazine. Search Tips are provided to assist the user in focusing searches. FindArticles is updated continuously. The fulltext articles can be printed or emailed. Coverage: 1998 onward Documents indexed: Journal Articles, Magazine Articles
link: http://www.findarticles.com/PI/index.jhtml

title: Firedoc
description: Online database produced by NIST containing a large collection of building and fire research materials. Includes over 80,000 references. Documents indexed: Audiovisual Media, Books, Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Reports, Theses & Dissertations
link: https://firedoc.nist.gov/

title: Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Testimonies
description: The Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Testimonies at Yale University consists of over 4,400 testimonies that record the experiences of over 4,000 survivors, witnesses, bystanders and liberators of the Holocaust. The collection documents the impact of the Holocaust over a broad swath of Nazi-occupied Europe, with interviewees from nineteen countries. The testimonies include survivors that are Jewish, Roma and Sinti, Jehovah Witnesses and political prisoners; resistors and rescuers; and liberators who served in the armed forces. Testimonies detail a wide range of experiences, including imprisonment in concentration camps, living in hiding, fighting with partisans or the resistance, rescuing and protecting those targeted by Nazi persecution, and escape to Allied or neutral countries.

Registration Required. Concordia University is an access site for the Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Testimonies. In addition to authenticating to Concordia via the link above, users also need to create a Fortunoff Aviary account to view content. You will need to follow the prompts to &quot;Request Access&quot; for the first film you view. After access has been granted, you will have viewing rights for the entire collection as long as you are logged into Aviary and accessing via the link above.
link: https://fortunoff.library.yale.edu/research/search-the-archive/

title: FP (Financial Post) Advisor
description: FP Advisor features financial and corporate information of Canadian companies. Sections include corporate analyzer and surveys, fixed income, new issues, dividends, investor and industry reports as well as M&A data involving Canadian firms.
link: https://fpadvisor.financialpost.com/login/ip/concordia/

title: Frontier Life: Borderlands, Settlement & Colonial Encounters
description: Acknowledgements: Access to Frontier Life is provided thanks to Consortia Canada and the Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN). Frontier Life provides over 240,000 Images and 7,895 Documents pertaining to the Frontiers of North America, Africa and Australasia (these primary documents include 68% of the collections dedicated to North America, and 20% of that material specific to Canada). There are more than 1,015 documents from the Glenbow Museum and Hudson Bays Archive. The collection deals with some of the major themes of frontier existence including: Settlement development, Law and order, Violence, Expeditions and exploration, Relations with indigenous peoples, Trade and commerce, Death and disease, Missionaries and religion, Womens history, Military matters, Mining, Religion, Gold rushes, Settler governance, Contested boundaries, Agriculture and livestock. 
Coverage: from the 17th century but the majority of the material originates from the 18th and 19th centuries.
link: https://www.frontierlife.amdigital.co.uk

title: Fund profiler
description: FundProfiler requires a secure logon. Please ask a librarian at the Webster or Vanier Reference Desk to logon for you.  Available during Reference Service Hours only. 
NOTE: Please LOGOUT or close your browser window when you are finished using this resource.
Fund Profiler provides access to detailed information on mutual funds and ETFs based in Canada. The database includes top ten holdings, portfolio allocation, risk measure, fees and expenses, and up to 10 years of performance returns. Acknowledgements: Access to this resource is provided thanks to the generosity of Carolyn and Brian Neysmith
See also:   
Fundata on CHASS
link: http://www.fundprofiler.ca

title: Gale eBooks
description: A collection of reference e-books, primarily subject encyclopedias and texbooks. Also known as Gale virtual reference library (GVRL).
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/GVRL?u=concordi_main

title: Gale Literature Criticism
description: Literature Criticism Online provides full text or selections of full text of essays and articles re-published in the following reference works: Shakespearean Criticism, Poetry Criticism, Short Story Criticism, Drama Criticism, and Literature Criticism from 1400 to 1800. Coverage: 15th century to 2000s Documents indexed: Essays, Journal Articles
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/LCO?u=concordi_main

title: Gale Literature Resource Center (LRC)
description: Covering international writers from many disciplines and periods, Literature Resource Center provides the full text of biographies, work overviews, book reviews, and literary criticism published in magazines and journals. 
Update Frequency: updated monthly. 
Documents indexed: Journal Articles
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/LitRC?u=concordi_main

title: Gale Literature: Contemporary Authors
description: Concordia has access to some Contemporary Authors content through our subscription to Literature Resource Center (LRC). Contemporary Authors provides short biographies of international writers from many disciplines. Documents indexed: Journal Articles
link: https://go.gale.com/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=concordi_main&v=2.1&pg=PersonSearch&it=static&sid=bookmark-LitRC

title: Gale Literature: Dictionary of Literary Biography (DLB)
description: Provides reliable information on authors from many countries and centuries. 
Also known as Dictionary of Literary Biography Yearbook
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/DLBC?u=concordi_main

title: GALE: all databases
description: Use this link to access all of Concordia's content on Gale.
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/menu?userGroupName=concordi_main

title: Gallica Periodicals
description: Gallica is a digital library of French and francophone culture maintained by the Bibliothèque nationale de France. Contains numerous electronic texts, images, maps, animation, and sound files of French and other publications in history, literature, science, philosophy, law, economics, and political science
link: https://gallica.bnf.fr/

title: Gender Studies Database
description: Gender Studies (GSD) combines Women's Studies International and Men's Studies databases with the coverage of sexual diversity issues. It covers the full spectrum of gender-engaged scholarship inside and outside academia.   Though not all content is fulltext, the database features Find it @ Concordia links to articles online and in the Libraries, and includes some direct links to articles and documents freely available on the Web. Coverage: 1972 and earlier to present Documents indexed: Books, Conference Proceedings, Government Documents, Journal Articles, Magazine Articles, Newspaper articles, Reports, Theses & Dissertations.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=fmh

title: GENERALENGINEERINGnetBASE
description: This is a collection of engineering handbooks and reference titles on the Taylor & Francis ebook platform. 

Previously known as: CRCnetBASE
link: https://www.taylorfrancis.com/search?isLicensed=true&key=&collection=wb066

title: Geobase on Engineering Village
description: Citations with abstracts to literature in physical and human geography, geology, mineralogy, ecology and development studies. Integrates the content of several print indexes, including Geographical Abstracts and Ecological Abstracts.
link: https://www.engineeringvillage.com/controller/servlet/Controller?CID=quickSearch&database=8192

title: Geoindex: Shared platform of geospatial data
description: Geoindex is a shared platform used by Quebec universities to disseminate geospatial data products. It includes numerous datasets produced by the Quebec government such as cadastral data, orthophotos, topographic data and much more. Users can perform keyword searches and use the interactive map to locate, visualize and download datasets in various formats and projections.
link: https://geoapp.bibl.ulaval.ca/login

title: Géophoto: Aerial photographs
description: Géophoto is a module of the Géoindex platform that provides access to aerial photographs owned by Quebec Universities, Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec (BAnQ) and Ministère des Ressources naturelles et des Forêts (MERN). Digital photographs can be downloaded from Géophoto, and print photographs can be ordered through interlibrary loans or, in some cases, digitized on demand. 

Also known as: Geophoto, Geoindex
link: https://geoapp.bibl.ulaval.ca/?currentMetaTypeCode=photo

title: GeoRef
description: GeoRef is the American Geosciences Institute's index to scientific literature in the earth sciences, including journal articles, books, maps, government publications, conference proceedings, technical reports, theses and dissertations. It is accessed on the EBSCOhost platform.

The GeoRef database contains over 3.8 million records related to geology, geophysics, geochemistry, hydrogeology, paleontology and mineralogy. It contains citations to all of the publications indexed in the Bibliography and Index of North American Geology, Abstracts of North American Geology, Bibliography of Theses in Geology, Geophysical Abstracts, Bibliography and Index of Geology Exclusive of North America, and the Bibliography and Index of Geology. The database includes references to all U.S. Geological Survey and state geological survey publications, as well as geological survey publications from other countries of the World. It also indexes Masters' theses and doctoral dissertations from US and Canadian universities.

Coverage: North America 1666-present; and the World 1933-present
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&custid=s4759561&groupid=main&profile=ehost&defaultdb=geh

title: Google News Archive
description: Historical archives in digital format of newspapers from Canada, including Quebec, and the United States.
link: https://news.google.com/newspapers

title: Google scholar
description: Google Scholar allows you to broadly search for scholarly literature across many disciplines and sources: peer-reviewed papers, theses, books, abstracts and articles, from academic publishers, professional societies, preprint repositories, universities and other scholarly organizations.
link: https://scholar.google.com

title: Government Finance Statistics (GFS) online
description: The IMF Government Finance Statistics contains statistical data on government financial operations for 145 IMF member countries. Where reported, the database contains time series from 1990 onwards using the Government Finance Statistics Manual, 2001 (GFSM 2001) framework. Time series present combined statistics on revenue, expenses, transactions in nonfinancial assets and financial assets and liabilities as well as for stocks of assets and liabilities of general government and its subsectors. Coverage: 1972 - present; Frequency: issued quarterly, updated as new data are received and time series become available.
link: https://data.imf.org/?sk=388DFA60-1D26-4ADE-B505-A05A558D9A42

title: Grant Connect (Imagine Canada)
description: Grant Connect is a Canadian directory to Canadian foundations and corporations that provide grant funding for projects and organizations. In addition to basic contact information, the names of grant recipients and the amounts of grant funding are generally available. Also known as Imagine Canada.
link: https://grantconnect.ca

title: GreenFILE
description: GreenFILE is a multidisciplinary EBSCO database covering many aspects of environmental sciences from the perspective of disciplines such as agriculture, education, law, health and engineering. The database indexes academic journals, magazines, trade publications and monographs.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=8gh

title: Guide to Accounting Standards for Private Enterprises
description: GASPE is the Canadian accounting and assurance resources online. Produced by the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants (CICA) Key resource for accounting professionals. Part of the CICA Handbook Collection; Documents indexed: Reports
link: https://edu.knotia.ca

title: Guide to International Financial Reporting Standards in Canada (GIFRS)
description: A practical guide to interpreting and applying the CICA HandbookAccounting, recommendations to financial reporting issues. Note: the Guide is no longer available in a paper format. Coverage: Canada
link: https://edu.knotia.ca

title: Handbook of Latin American studies online
description: From the website: &quot;The Handbook is a bibliography on Latin America consisting of works selected and annotated by scholars. Edited by the Hispanic Division of the Library of Congress, the multidisciplinary Handbook alternates annually between the social sciences and the humanities. Each year, more than 130 academics from around the world choose over 5,000 works for inclusion in the Handbook. Continuously published since 1935, the Handbook offers Latin Americanists an essential guide to available resources.&quot; Coverage: 1935 onward Documents indexed: Books
link: https://memory.loc.gov/hlas/

title: Handbook of Translation Studies
description: The Handbook of Translation Studies Online (HTS) aims at disseminating knowledge about translation and interpreting to a relatively broad audience: not only students who often adamantly prefer user-friendliness, researchers and lecturers in Translation Studies, Translation & Interpreting professionals; but also scholars, experts and professionals from other disciplines (among which linguistics, sociology, history, psychology). HTS is the first handbook with this scope in Translation Studies that has both a print edition and an online version. The HTS is variously searchable: by article, by author, by subject. All articles are written by specialists in the different subfields and are peer-reviewed.
link: https://benjamins.com/online/hts/

title: Harvard Business - Core Curriculum
description: Accessed on EBSCOhost, this is a collection of 76 readings that cover the foundational concepts, theories, and frameworks essential for business studies. The readings are authored by faculty at Harvard Business School and each reading includes Teaching Notes, related course materials and exhibit slides. Also included are 35-question test banks, practice questions, video clips, and interactive Illustrations enhance student comprehension of specific topics.

To access Teaching Notes, instructors need to create an account on the Harvard Business Publishing website.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&custid=s4759561&groupid=main&profile=ehost&defaultdb=hcc

title: Harvard University Press eBook Collection
description: A collection of e-books published by Harvard University Press (access provided on the De Gruyter platform).
link: https://www.degruyter.com/browse?anyAccess=true&publisher=HUP&searchTitles=true&sort=titlesort

title: Health Indicators
description: Health Indicators is an electronic publication produced by Statistics Canada and the Canadian Institute for Health Information. It provides a set of indicators which measure the health of the Canadian population and the health care system. Health Indicators are designed to provide comparable information at the health region and provincial/territorial level, and are based on standard definitions and methods. These indicators are organized into 4 categories: health status (including health conditions, mortality rates, measures of well-being)  non-medical determinants of health (socio-economic characteristics and health behaviour)  health system performance (measures of accessibility, appropriateness, effectiveness of health care services)  and, community and health system characteristics (contextual information).  Health Indicators contains data tables with rates for a variety of indicators broken down by sex and by health region. Provincial and national rates are also provided within each table. These data are produced from a wide range of sources and are the most recent available. This publication is the first in a series of regional level indicators. Future releases will include additional indicators within the same framework, developed at both provincial/territorial and health region levels, and potential time series as additional indicators within the same framework, developed at both provincial/territorial and health region levels, and potential time series as additional years of data become available.  Health Indicators 1999 and Health Indicators 1997 are available free to Concordia University users through McGill EDRS. Documents indexed: Statistics
link: https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/en/catalogue/82-221-X

title: HeinOnline
description: Hein Online contains digital archives of legal information, including multidisciplinary periodicals, essential government documents, international resources, case law, and more. All collections provide comprehensive coverage of each publication, with the a facsimile version of the full-text displayed in image-based format. 

Concordia has access to: 

Acts of the Parliament of Canada (Annual Statutes)
American Association of Law Libraries
Association of American Law Schools
Canada Supreme Court Records
Civil Rights and Social Justice 
Code of Federal Regulations
Core US Journals 
COVID-19  Pandemics Past and Present
Criminal Justice & Criminology 
Criminal Justice Journals 
Early American Case Law
English Reports
European Center for Minority Issues
Executive Privilege 
Fastcase Basic*
Federal Register
Foreign Relations of the United States (FRUS)
GAO Reports and Comptroller General Decisions 
Gun Regulation and Legislation in America 
History of Supreme Court Nominations
Indigenous Peoples of the Americas: History, Culture & Law 
International Law Association Reports
John F Kennedy Assassination Collection 
Law Journal Library
Legal Classics
LGBTQ+ Rights
Manual of Patent Examining Procedure
Martindale-Hubbel Law Directory 
Military and Government
Open Society Justice Initiative 
Pentagon Papers 
Provincial Statutes of Canada
Reports of US Presidential Commissions and Other Advisory Bodies 
Revised Statutes of Canada 
Slavery in America and the World 
Statutes of the Realm 
Trends in Law Library Management & Technology 
UNC Press Law Publications 
United States Code
US Congressional Documents
US Congressional Serial Set 
US Federal Legislative History Library
US Presidential Impeachment Library 
US Presidential Library
US Statutes at Large
US Supreme Court Library
U.S. Treaties and Agreements Library 
Women and the Law
World Constitutions Illustrated
link: https://heinonline.org/HOL/Welcome

title: HeinOnline Law Journal Library
description: Hein Online contains more than 1,530 law and law-related periodicals. Coverage is from the first issue published for all periodicals and goes through the most-currently published issues allowed based on contracts with publishers.
link: https://heinonline.org/HOL/Index?collection=journals

title: HeinOnline U.S. Congressional Documents
description: Hein Online US Congress Dcouments features the complete Congressional Record Bound version, as well as the daily version back to 1980. It also includes the three predecessor titles: Annals of Congress (1789-1824), Register of Debates (1824-1837) Congressional Globe (1833-1873), and Congressional Hearings (early 1900s-present), as well as other important congressional material such as hearings, CRS Reports, and much more.
link: https://heinonline.org/HOL/Welcome

title: HeinOnline World Constitutions Illustrated: Contemporary & Historical Documents & Resources
description: Hein Online World Constitutions Illustrated contains the current constitution of every country in the world in its original language along with at least one English translation. Also includes more than 800 books on constitutions, constitutional history and jurisprudence, and political and economic history, and  more than a dozen legal periodicals focusing on constitutional law.
link: https://heinonline.org/HOL/Index?collection=cow

title: Helminthological abstracts
description: Covers taxonomy, biology, pathology, immunology, diagnosis, epidemiology, treatment and control of all helminths (Monogenea, Aspidogastrea, Digenea, Cestoda, Acanthocephala, Nematoda) parasitic in man and domestic and wild animals. It also covers key English and foreign language journal articles, reports, conferences and books about helminths. Created and indexed by subject specialists, Helminthological Abstracts, provides access to these abstracts alongside comprehensive indexing, classification codes, taxonomies, thesauri and other data mining functionalities. The database includes a fully searchable backfile to 1990 of over 43,000 abstracts with approximately 4,750 new records added each year. Coverage: 1990 onward; Update Frequency: weekly; Documents indexed: Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Reports.
link: https://www.cabdirect.org/cabdirect/search/?searchtype=advance-search&q=

title: Héritage
description: The Canadiana Heritage project is a 10-year initiative to digitize and make accessible online some of Canada's most popular archival collections, encompassing roughly 60 million pages of primary-source documents chronicling the country and its people from the 1600s to the mid-1900s.
link: https://heritage.canadiana.ca/

title: HighWire Press
description: Highwire, a division of Stanford University Libraries, provides access to publications issued by independent scholarly publishers, societies, university presses and associations.
link: http://highwire.stanford.edu/lists/allsites.dtl

title: HighWire Press (Free Journals)
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals
link: http://highwire.stanford.edu/lists/freeart.dtl

title: Hispanic American periodicals index (HAPI)
description: HAPI Online indexes articles, book reviews, documents, original literary works about Central and South America, Mexico, the Caribbean basin and Hispanics in the U.S. appearing in more than 500 social science and humanities journals published worldwide. Subject coverage includes politics, history, economics, commerce, indigenous affairs, geography, gender issues, environment, anthropology, religion, social issues, literature, drama, art and film. Many citations link to fulltext Coverage: 1970 to present. Documents indexed: Book Reviews, Journal Articles
link: https://www.hapi.ucla.edu

title: Historical Abstracts
description: EBSCO Historical Abstracts is the first place to start your search for articles about world history.  Citations with abstracts to articles in some 2,000 journals and citations to books and dissertations on political, diplomatic, economic, social, cultural, and intellectual history. Covers the history of the world since 1450 except for the U.S. and Canada. For North American history see America: History and Life. Coverage: 1955 onward; Update Frequency: Updated three times per year. Documents indexed: Books, Journal Articles, Theses & Dissertations
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=hia

title: Historical Statistics of Canada
description: The electronic version of this historical publication is accessible at Statistics Canada as a free downloadable document. &quot;The second edition of Historical Statistics of Canada was jointly produced by the Social Sciences Federation of Canada and Statistics Canada in 1983. Contains about 1,088 statistical tables on the social, economic and institutional conditions of Canada from the start of the Confederation in 1867 to the mid-1970s,  arranged in sections with an introduction explaining the content of each section, the principal sources of data for each table, and general explanatory notes regarding the statistics.&quot; One can trace the historical conditions of Canadians respecting inflation, housing, employment, health, education, balance of payments. Coverage: 1867 to mid-1970s Documents indexed: Statistics
link: https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/en/catalogue/11-516-X

title: Historical statistics of the United States
description: The Millennial edition of Historical Statistics of the United States online includes statistics on population, employment, education, social welfare, income, expenditures, prices, financial markets, economic sectors, government, and many other subjects. It represents a comprehensive statistical portrait of the United States from colonial times to the present. The Millennial edition includes over 37,000 data series. Historical Statistics of the United States is fully searchable by title, keyword, and contributor. It can also be browsed from the table of contents. Data series can be viewed in PDF or HTML formats and downloaded in Excel or CSV formats. Each section has an introductory essay that provides information on data sources, reliability and the scope of the subject. Documents indexed: Statistics
link: https://hsus.cambridge.org/HSUSLink/search

title: Hoover's Company Profiles
description: Hoover's Company Records contains proprietary information about more than 40,000 public and non-public companies and 225,000 key executives. Hoovers delivers in-depth industry analyses, information on a company's location, summary financials, top competitors, top officers and more. In addition, company names mentioned in the ProQuest databases are linked to the Hoovers database when a profile is available. Documents indexed: Financial Statements, Reports
link: https://search.proquest.com/hooverscompany/advanced?accountid=10246

title: House of Commons Committees
description: House of Commons Committees examine, in small groups, selected legislative matters in great depth.  They report conclusions of those examination and recommendations to the House. Publications available: Committee Mandates and Membership, Committee Evidence, Minutes, Proceedings, Video, Speeches, Studies, Activities, and Reports.
link: https://www.ourcommons.ca/Committees/en/Home

title: House of Commons debates (Hansard)
description: The official verbatim reports of the Debates of the House of Commons. Hansard is the official record of all parliamentary sessions. Debates from January 17, 1994 (35th Parliament, 1st session) to the present are currently available online, with issues posted the next weekday after each sitting of the House.English and French. Also available on CD-ROM. Coverage: January 1994 onward Documents indexed: Speeches & Transcripts
link: https://www.ourcommons.ca/PublicationSearch/en/?PubType=37

title: HSELINE
description: HSELINE is part of CCINFOweb. Coverage: 1977 onward. Documents indexed: Government Documents, Journal Articles.
link: http://ccinfoweb.ccohs.ca/

title: Humanities & Social Sciences Index Retrospective: 1907-1984 (H.W. Wilson)
description: Indexes articles and book reviews in nearly 1,100 periodicals covering a broad range of subjects in the humanities and social sciences.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=hsr

title: IBISWorld
description: WARNING: There is a download limit of 100 articles per session for this database.  Access will be blocked for the entire Concordia community if this limit is reached by an individual user in a single session.  Please LOG OUT and start a new session before the limit is reached in order to download further reports.

Provides access to a comprehensive collection of global industry market research reports. IBISWorld includes the following products: 

Canada Industry Reports
Canada Industry Risk Ratings Reports
Canada Macroeconomic Business Environment Profiles
China Industry Reports
Global Industry Reports
US Industry Reports
US Industry Risk Ratings Reports
US Macroeconomic Business Environment Profiles
US Specialized Industry Reports
US Specialized Industry Risk Rating Reports
Also known as: IBIS World
link: https://my.ibisworld.com

title: IBTD  - International bibliography of theatre & dance with full text
description: The International Bibliography of Theatre & Dance with Full Text (IBTD) provides references with abstracts for journal articles, books, book articles and dissertation on all aspects of theatre and performance in 126 countries. IBTD features more than 140 fulltext journals and over 300 fulltext books.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=ibh

title: icriq.com: Quebec Manufacturers, Wholesalers and Product Sourcing Company Directory
description: Information about business enterprises engaged in manufacturing, wholesaling or distributing in Québec. The data is compiled by the Banque d'information industrielle of the Centre de recherche industrielle du Québec (CRIQ) and allows for a detailed search by product category or industry, such as through the North American Industrial Classification System.
link: https://www.icriq.com/en/

title: IEEE Xplore
description: IEEE Xplore provides access to citations, abstracts, and full-text of articles published in the journals, transactions, and conference proceedings of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) and of the British-based Institution of Electrical Engineers (IEE) from 1988 onwards. Current IEEE standards are also available.  This database covers the literature in many fields including circuits, communication systems, computer engineering, information theory, robotics, power engineering, signal processing, telecommunications. Coverage: Full-text coverage from 1988 onwards. Also known as IEEE Electronic Library.
link: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/Xplore/home.jsp

title: IEEE-Wiley eBooks Library
description: The IEEE-Wiley eBooks Library offers online access to more than 400 eBooks via the IEEE Xplore Digital Library. The eBooks collection spans numerous content areas, including Bioengineering, Power & Energy and Communication technologies, among other growing areas of research.
link: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/Xplore/dynhome.jsp

title: IET E-books
description: Ebooks collection covering subjects in engineering and technology, including: Circuits, Devices and Systems  Control Engineering  Electrical Technology  Electromagnetic Waves  History of Technology  Management of Technology  Manufacturing  Power And Energy  Professional Applications of Computing  Radar, Sonar, Navigation and Avionics  Renewable Energy   Telecommunications.
link: https://digital-library.theiet.org/ebooks/search/series

title: IGI Global
description: IGI Global InfoSci Books features a collection of  information science and technology reference works, encyclopedias, handbooks of research, teaching cases and proceedings. Also know as IGI Global Research Collection.
link: https://www.igi-global.com/gateway/contentowned/books.aspx?accesstype=eaccess

title: Illustrated London News Historical Archive (1842-2003)
description: Online access to the entire run of the Illustrated London News from its first publication on 14 May 1842 to its last in 2003. Each page has been digitally reproduced in full colour, and articles, captions and advertisements are full-text searchable.
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/ILN?u=concordi_main

title: IMB - International medieval bibliography online
description: IMB Online is a bibliographic database that provides citations to articles and other items in all medieval subjects covering more than 4000 journals. It covers all aspects of medieval studies within the date range of 450 to 1500 for the entire continent of Europe, the Middle East and North Africa for the period before the Muslim conquest and parts of those areas subsequently controlled by Christian powers. Coverage: 1967 onward; Documents indexed: Books, Conference Proceedings, Essays, Journal Articles.

Access is limited to 3 concurrent users.
link: http://apps.brepolis.net/LTool/Entrance.aspx?w=1

title: IMF E-Library
description: IMF Elibrary provides access to the following resources: International Financial Statistics (IFS), Balance of Payments Statistics (BOPS), Government Finance Statistics (GFS) and Direction of Trade Statistics (DOTS).
link: https://data.imf.org/?sk=388DFA60-1D26-4ADE-B505-A05A558D9A42

title: INCE digital library
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals which provides access to current and past issues of NCEJ (Noise Control Engineering Journal) as well as the entire online collection of over 6,000 INCE conference papers.
link: https://ince.publisher.ingentaconnect.com/content/ince/

title: Index Islamicus
description: An important reference guide to the worldwide literature in European languages on Islam, the Middle East and the Muslim world. Covers all aspects of Muslim life - history, beliefs, societies, cultures, languages and literatures.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=ich

title: Index of Medieval Art
description: The Index of Medieval Art is the largest database of Medieval art in existence, with records for works of art dating from early apostolic times to the end of the 15th century. Provides access to over 60,000 color and black and white photographic reproductions of Christian medieval art searchable by subject, work of art and bibliography. Records have textual information and bibliographies about the images and may also include a published image of the work. Some restriction of images occurs due to copyright restrictions, however bibliography references to published images are usually provided. Covers Western and Eastern Orthodox Christianity primarily, but the term Christian is broadly interpreted and includes Jewish, Islamic, and non-ecclesiastical subjects as well, and is without geographical limitations. The art is diverse in theme, media, and motif. In addition, the database includes a bibliography covering iconography, art history, archaeology, religious, and classical studies.
link: https://theindex.princeton.edu/

title: Index to Jewish Periodicals
description: Accessed on the EBSCOhost platform, the Index to Jewish Periodicals (IJP) is a comprehensive guide to Jewish history, activity, and thought. Indexed are 220 periodicals devoted to Jewish affairs, published in the United States, England, Israel, Canada, South Africa and Australia. Journal coverage dates back as far as 1988. Full-text links available for some records.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=jph

title: Index to Journals of the House of Commons of Canada
description: Cross-referenced Indexes to the Journals in both official languages. Complex searches can be performed quickly and easily by any combination of subject, political party, province, speaker, language of text or day. Coverage: January 17,1994 onward Help Guide: Available on CD-ROM  Available on the Parliamentary website: User Guide to Journals Index Documents indexed: Government Documents
link: https://www.ourcommons.ca/PublicationSearch/en/?PubType=203

title: Index Translationum
description: The INDEX TRANSLATIONUM data base contains bibliographical information on books translated and published in about a hundred of UNESCO's Member States since 1979. The translated books are from all disciplines: literature, social and human sciences, natural and exact sciences, art, history, etc. Coverage: 1979 onward; Update Frequency: Updated quarterly.
link: https://www.unesco.org/xtrans/

title: Indigenous Newspapers in North America
description: This is a collection of Indigenous print journalism from the US and Canada, covering the years 1828-2016. The newspapers include national periodicals as well as local community news and student publications. With newspapers representing a huge variety in publisher, audience and era, this database contains primary source information on events as they were reported on by and for Indigenous communities. 

Features include: article-level searching and browsing, contextual essays, visual galleries, and interactive data visualisations. This is an Adam Matthew Digital collection.

Previously known as: American Indian Newspapers
link: http://www.americanindiannewspapers.amdigital.co.uk

title: Indigenous Peoples of North America
description: This collection contains primary sources that document the historical experiences, cultural traditions, innovations, and political status of Indigenous Peoples in the United States and Canada.  Manuscripts, monographs, newspapers, photographs, motion pictures, images of artwork, and more, document the impact of invasion and colonization on Indigenous Peoples in North America, as well as the intersection of Indigenous and European histories and systems of knowledge. The collection features indigenous-language materials, including dictionaries, bibles, and primers.

The collection also gives access to the complete papers of the first organization to address Native American interests and rights: the Indian Rights Association (1882-1986). It contains incoming and outgoing correspondence; organizational records; printed material, including early pamphlets and publications both by the Indian Rights Association and other Native American and Native American–related organizations.

Also known as: Gale Primary Sources
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/INDP?u=concordi_main

title: Indigenous Peoples of the Americas: History, Culture & Law
description: A collection with more than 3,800 titles and more than 2.3 million total pages dedicated to indigenous American life and law, including treaties, federal statutes, federal case law, tribal codecs, constitutions, and more.
link: https://heinonline.org/HOL/Index?collection=amindian

title: Indigenous Studies Collection (Curio.ca)
description: CBC streaming documentaries that explore the Indigenous experience across Canada: cultural awareness, traditional knowledge and the contemporary challenges facing Indigenous and non-Indigenous peoples across Canada as we begin to explore reconciliation together.
link: https://medial.library.concordia.ca/Browse/Category/6040

title: Indigenous Studies Playlist (McIntyre Media)
description: Streaming documentaries covering covering a wide range of Indigenous topics: Truth and Reconciliation, Treaty Education, Residential Schools, Tradition & Culture, Arts, Colonialism and more. Part of the McIntyre Media collection.
link: https://medial.library.concordia.ca/Browse/Category/6068

title: Indigenous Studies Portal (iPortal)
description: Indigenous studies database  contains full text and links to manuscripts, articles, theses, journals, maps, government reports, archival documents and photos, correspondence.
link: https://iportal.usask.ca

title: IngentaConnect
description: Ingenta is a periodical index database and article delivery system that lists articles from over 20,000 publications. Subject coverage is roughly divided as follows: science, technology and medicine, 53%;  social sciences, 21%;  business, 12%; humanities, 11%; and fine arts  3%. Update Frequency: Updated daily; Documents indexed: Journal Articles; Coverage: 1988 onward.Formerly known as Uncover (former name)
link: https://www.ingentaconnect.com/search/advanced

title: INSPEC (Engineering village)
description: Citations with abstracts to literature in physics, electrical engineering, electronics and computing. Includes technical journals, proceedings, books and reports. Contains Physics Abstracts, Electrical and Electronics Abstracts and Computer and Control Abstracts. By default, the database is searched together with Compendex, but both INSPEC and Compendex can be searched individually by selecting or deselecting one of the databases. Duplicate results can be easily removed. Documents indexed: Books, Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Technical Reports Coverage: 1896 onward.

INSPEC Analytics can also be accessed via the THEIET platform, but note that this alternate access does not offer the same features as Engineering Village.

Also known as: EI Inspec
link: https://www.engineeringvillage.com/controller/servlet/Controller?CID=quickSearch&database=2

title: Inspec Analytics (IET)
description: Inspec Analytics is the Institution of Engineering and Technology's database of abstracts to literature in physics, electrical engineering, electronics and computing. Includes technical journals, proceedings, books and reports. Contains Physics Abstracts, Electrical and Electronics Abstracts and Computer and Control Abstracts. Documents indexed: Books, Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Technical Reports Coverage: 1896 onward.

INSPEC Analytics can also be accessed via the Engineering Village platform.
link: https://inspec-analytics-app.theiet.org

title: Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS)
description: IRIS is prepared and maintained by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The IRIS database contains information on human health effects that may result from exposure to various chemicals in the environment. IRIS is a collection of files covering individual chemicals. The files contain descriptive and quantitative information in the following categories: Hazard identification, oral slope factors, and oral and inhalation unit risks for carcinogenic effects The information in IRIS is intended for use in protecting public health through risk assessment and risk management.  Oral reference doses and inhalation reference concentrations (RfDs and RfCs) for chronic noncarcinogenic health effects. Coverage: 1987 onward; Documents indexed: Reports.
link: https://www.epa.gov/iris/

title: Intelliconnect
description: Provides access to Canadian federal legislation, case law, and commentary on topical areas in law, as well as the full text of CCH publications including Canadian Tax Reporter, Dominion Tax Cases, and Canadian Master Tax Guide. Also know as Canadian Tax Library; Tax Topics.
link: https://intelliconnect.ca?wksso=false

title: Inter-Play: An Online Index to Plays in Collections, Anthologies and Periodicals
description: Inter-Play is an online index to plays in collections, anthologies, and periodicals and in a variety of languages, containing approximately 19,000 citations to plays. The sources indexed range from the late 19th century through the current year. Coverage: Late 19th century onward Update Frequency: Updated regularly
link: https://library.pdx.edu/interplay/

title: Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR )
description: Users must create a MyData account on the ICPSR site in order to access data.  The account must be created on a computer connected to Concordia's network.
ICPSR is a statistical data repository covering fields such as sociology, political science, economics, demography, education, child care, health care, crime, minority populations, aging, terrorism, substance abuse, mental health, public policy, and international relations. The collection focuses on U.S. issues but also includes several datasets that deal with international and Canadian topics.  The data is presented in a raw format which means that statistical analysis software such as SPSS or SAS is needed to interpret it.
link: https://www.icpsr.umich.edu/icpsrweb/ICPSR/

title: International bibliography of art
description: The International Bibliography of Art (IBA) is an index of scholarly literature on western art. IBA is the successor to the Bibliography of the History of Art (BHA), and its coverage ranges from 2008 to the present. Subject coverage includes: Fine arts in all media (from painting and sculpture to video and new media), Decorative Arts, Museum studies and conservation, Archaeology, Folk art, Material culture, Classical studies, Antiques, and Architectural history.
link: https://search.proquest.com/iba/advanced?accountid=10246

title: International encyclopedia of the social & behavioral sciences (2015)
description: The second edition of the International Encyclopedia of the Social and Behavioral Sciences  (IESBS) was published by Elsevier in 2015. It provides signed articles covering all areas of the social sciences including anthropology, archaeology, demography, economics, education, gender studies, law, linguistics, media studies, political science, psychology, sociology, urban studies, and many other areas. Coverage: 2015 edition
link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/referenceworks/9780080970875

title: International financial statistics (IFS)
description: Created by the International Monetary Fund, the International Financial Statistics Online database is a standard source of international statistics on all aspects of international and domestic finance. It reports, for over 200 countries of the world, current data needed in the analysis of problems of international payments and of inflation and deflation, i.e., data on exchange rates, international liquidity, international banking, money and banking, interest rates, prices, production, international transactions,  government accounts, and national accounts. Coverage: Quarterly and monthly data: 1957 onwards,  annual data: 1948 onwards. Documents indexed: Financial Statements, Statistics; Update Frequency: monthly.. Part of the IMFdata collection
link: https://data.imf.org/?sk=4C514D48-B6BA-49ED-8AB9-52B0C1A0179B

title: International Newsstream
description: Fulltext news content from outside the U.S. and Canada.  Coverage varies by title.  Excludes illustrations, graphs, classified ads, advertisements, and stock market reports.Part of the ProQuest Central Newsstream.
link: https://search.proquest.com/internationalnews1/advanced?accountid=10246

title: International Political Science Abstracts (IPSA) on EBSCO
description: International Political Science Abstracts (IPSA) is a bibliographic database that indexes and abstracts articles from periodicals published throughout the world. Covers political science method and theory; political thinkers and ideas; governmental & administrative institutions; political process including public opinion; international relations; and national and area studies. The abstracts summarize the source articles. Articles in English are abstracted in English;  those in other languages are abstracted in French, with all titles translated into English.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=ijh

title: International Press Journals
description: International Press publishes journals in various fields of academic mathematics research, including statistics. Concordia subscribes to only some of the titles in this database.
link: https://www.intlpress.com

title: International Studies Encyclopedia Online
description: The International Studies Encyclopedia Online is a comprehensive reference work for the fields of international studies and international relations. The resource is updated twice annually and enhanced by live links to archives, datasets, cases, pedagogical aids, and other relevant materials.Also known as International Studies Compendium Project.
link: https://www.oxfordreference.com/view/10.1093/acref/9780191842665.001.0001/acref-9780191842665

title: International Toxicity Estimates
description: This database is a compilation of human health risks values for over 600 chemicals of environmental concern from several health organizations worldwide. Documents indexed: Statistics
link: https://www.tera.org/iter/

title: Io-port.net
description: io-port.net is a database that indexes computer science and technology literature. Produced in Germany, this database provides citations to articles from a broad range of journals and book series. Coverage: 1951  present
link: https://www.zentralblatt-math.org/ioport/search/

title: IOP Science
description: A full-text database of journals, conference proceedings, and ebooks, published by the Institute of Physics (IOP). Content focus is on the physical sciences.   

Also known as: Institute of Physics (IOP) Journals, IOPScience
link: https://iopscience.iop.org/page/subjects

title: IPA Source
description: IPA Source is the web's largest library of International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) transcriptions and literal translations of opera arias and art song texts. Now with over 3,775 texts including 550 opera-aria texts. The goal of IPA Source is to promote the comprehension and accurate pronunciation of foreign language texts in art song and opera in order that the singer may imbue each syllable with the appropriate emotional content. Translations into English from multiple languages.
link: https://www.ipasource.com

title: Ipsos news center
description: Online database of publicly released polls from 1995 forward, accompanied by detailed data tables, demographic breakdowns, charts and/or PowerPoint slides. Coverage: 1995 onward
link: https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/news-and-polls/overview

title: ISI Journal citation reports (JCR)
description: Journal Citation Reports is published annually in two editions: JCR Science Edition - contains data from over 7,300 journals in science and technology   JCR Social Sciences Edition - contains data from over 2,200 journals in the social sciences. Essential Science Indicators are also available. Provides citation data for evaluating scholarly journals. The data includes citation and article counts, impact factor, immediacy index, and other measures. It is possible to filter the data by subject category, by publisher, by country, or by selected journals. Coverage 2005 onward.

Also known as: Journal and Highly Cited Data
link: https://jcr.clarivate.com

title: Iter: Gateway to the Middle Ages and Renaissance
description: Covering the Middle Ages and Renaissance (400-1700), Iter indexes more than 1,100 journals and provides citations for journal articles, reviews, review articles, books, bibliographies, catalogues, abstracts and discographies. Iter Italicum is an &quot;online version of Paul Oskar Kristeller's Iter Italicum, the most comprehensive finding list available of previously uncatalogued or incompletely catalogued Renaissance humanistic manuscripts found in libraries and collections all over the world. Originally published in six volumes between 1963 and 1992, it is an essential tool for any scholar working in the fields of classical, medieval and Renaissance studies.&quot; IDRRAI is an &quot;online edition of the International Directory of Renaissance and Reformation Associations and Institutes&quot;. Includes access to the International Directory of Scholars (IDS) by the Renaissance Society of America (RSA), Scholars of Early Modern Studies (SEMS) by the Sixteenth Century Studies Conference (SCSC). &quot;The IDS is a comprehensive resource which accommodates not only the usual directory contact information, but also detailed information on the research and teaching careers of scholars around the world.&quot; Coverage: 1943 onward for reviews, 1995 onward for books, journals are usually indexed from their first issues onward. Update Frequency: Daily Documents indexed: Book Reviews, Books, Essays, Journal Articles. Also known as Iter Italicum, IDRRAI, IDS, SEMS.
link: https://www.itergateway.org/

title: Jazz discography online
description: Discography created and maintained by Tom Lord including 175,000 jazz recording sessions from 1896 to today. It can be searched by musician, leader, record label, song, recording date, instrument, nationality of musicians, etc.  Coverage: 1896 onward.  Update Frequency: Daily. Also known as TJD Online
link: https://www.lordisco.com/tjd/Login

title: Johns Hopkins Guide to Literary Theory and Criticism
description: A comprehensive historical survey of the most important figures, schools, and movements in literary theory and criticism. Includes more than 300 alphabetically arranged entries and subentries on critics and theorists, critical schools and movements, and the critical and theoretical innovations of specific countries and historical periods. Updated annually.
link: https://litguide.press.jhu.edu

title: Journals@Ovid
description: Journal@Ovid is an aggregate database of hundreds of scientific, technical, and medical journals from over 50 publishers and societies. Concordia subscribes to full-text for only some of the titles in this database.
link: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/autologin.html

title: JoVE  (Journal of Visualized Experiments)
description: The Journal of Visualized Experiments (JoVE) is a peer-reviewed journal of experiments in video format. Concordia has access to all Education content on the JoVE platform, including the Science Education collections, Core collections, Lab Manuals, and JoVE Book, as well as Research content in the areas of Behavior, Neuroscience, Bioengineering, Biology, and Medicine.
link: https://www.jove.com

title: JSTOR
description: JSTOR provides access to archives of over one thousand leading academic journals across the humanities, social sciences, and sciences, as well as select monographs and other materials valuable for academic work.  JSTOR presents searchable full text, in facsimile form, of the complete back files of important scholarly journals, generally from the first volume through issues published prior to the most recent three years. Current issues are not available. JSTOR is a consortium of approximately 1,800 participating academic institutions and is continually expanding.
link: https://www.jstor.org/action/showAdvancedSearch

title: JSTOR 19th Century British Pamphlets
description: Collection of over 20,000 digitized significant British pamphlets created by Research Libraries UK. Includes the Cowen Tracts, Humen Tracts, and Knowsley pamphlet collection This is a collection of full-text pamplets
link: https://www.jstor.org/action/showJournals?browseType=collectionInfoPage&selectCollection=britpam

title: JSTOR Ireland collection
description: The JSTOR Ireland Collection adds titles and resources across the arts, humanities, and sciences in disciplines such as music, art, history, literature, archaeology, mathematics, and biology  it includes some books as well as manuscripts. The content is international in scope, while also providing a focus on Ireland.
link: https://www.jstor.org/subject/irishstudies

title: Kanopy
description: Streaming films covering a wide range of disciplines.
link: https://concordiaca.kanopy.com/

title: Key Business Ratios
description: Key Business Ratios (KBR) provides benchmarking data to examine industry benchmarks compiled from Dun & Bradstreet's database of public and private companies, featuring 14 key business ratios in 800 lines of business. These ratios are used to benchmark a company's performance in the areas of solvency, efficiency, and profitability against its industry norm. Users may search data by SIC (Standard Industry Classification) or NAICS (North American Industry Classification System) codes, line of business, asset range and year. Coverage includes Canadian and U.S. companies.
link: https://www.mergentkbr.com

title: Kirk-Othmer encyclopedia of chemical technology
description: Written by prominent scholars from industry, academia, and research institutions, the Encyclopedia brings together and treats systematically facts on the properties, manufacturing, and uses of chemicals and materials, processes, and engineering principles, coupled with insights into current research, emerging technologies and economic aspects. Environmental and health concerns are also addressed. Update Frequency: regularly: articles are added on a monthly basis
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/book/10.1002/0471238961

title: Knovel
description: Full-text database of engineering and science reference sources, including many handbooks, from a variety of publishers. Features of the platform include the ability to download and manipulate the data that appears in many of the technical books. This database is particularly useful for finding material property data.

Try the mobile app, Knovel ToGo. When setting up the app, you will need to input the Mobile Authentication Code found in your MyKnovel account.
link: https://app.knovel.com/kn

title: Latino literature
description: Latino Literature contains approximately 380 plays and 67,500 pages of prose and poetry by Chicano, Cuban, Puerto Rican, Dominican and other Latin writers working in the United States. -- NOTE: This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections. Simultaneous Users: Unlimited NOTE: If you are experiencing problems accessing the content from off-campus, please delete your browser's cookies and temporary internet files. Documents indexed: Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc)
link: https://lit.alexanderstreet.com/lali/

title: LearnTechLib
description: Online resource of peer-reviewed and published international journal articles and proceedings papers on the latest research, developments, and applications related to all aspects of Educational Technology and E-Learning. Also known as EdITLib Digital Library; Learning and Technology Library; AACE Digital Library.
link: https://www.learntechlib.org

title: Lexis Advance
description: Access available at Library workstations, during Reference Desk service hours.  Password required.  Please ask staff at the Vanier or Webster Reference Desk to sign you in to this resource.

Remote access may be possible. Please email lib-eissues@concordia.ca for more information 

Includes full-text access to primarily U.S. and a few international newspapers, newswires, trade and industry publications, as well as to financial and legal information sources and television and radio broadcast transcripts.
link: 

title: LGBT Life with Full Text
description: Broad coverage of the world's LGBTQ literature, for both academic & lifestyle publications. Covers the full run of 190 of the most important & historically significant journals, magazines, and regional newspapers, both mainstream and grey, and more than 330 books & reference works. Topics include sociology, culture, civil liberties, individual lives, family, community, employment, history, politics, psychology, and religion. Citations with selective articles in full-text.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=qth

title: Library, Information Science & Technology Abstracts (LISTA)
description: Database for library and information science studies. LISTA provides indexing and abstracting for hundreds of key journals, books, research reports. Coverage goes back to 1960.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=lxh

title: Linguistics & language behavior abstracts (LLBA)
description: Linguistics and Language Behavior Abstracts (LLBA) covers disciplines concerned with the nature and use of language. The database is international in scope and covers all aspects of the study of language including phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax and semantics. Coverage is also given to various fields of lingusitics including descriptive, historical, comparative, theoretical and geographical linguistics. Materials indexed include journal articles, conference proceedings, theses and book chapters. Coverage: 1973 onward; Update Frequency: Updated monthly; Documents indexed: Book Reviews, Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Theses & Dissertations
link: https://search.proquest.com/llba/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Literary theory
description: Literary Theory traces the history of literary theory and criticism from Plato to Judith Butler. It contains over 1,000 works by more than 350 writers, including: formal treatises on criticism, essays and manifestos, literary prefaces, theories of imagination, taste and aesthetics, and major examples of contemporary theory. Coverage: Fifth century BC to 1994; Documents indexed: Books, Essays
link: https://collections.chadwyck.com/lithe/htxview?template=basic.htx&content=frameset.htx

title: Literature Online Core (LION Core) (legacy)
description: Literature Online (LION) contains more than 350,000 full-text works of English and American poetry, drama, and prose, beginning in 600 AD, Canadian poetry from 1610 to the present and literary works from Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Australia, South Asia, South Africa, the Caribbean and West Indies. LION includes full-text biographies and audio-clips of authors reading their own works or other authors works.
link: https://search.proquest.com/lion

title: LLMC Digital
description: LLMC Digital, short for Law Library Microfilm Consortium Digital, is an online database dedicated to preserving historical legal resources. The database contains primary law and secondary sources such as treatises.

LLMC Digital contains a number of different legal collections, including material involving the U.S. Federal Government (e.g. laws of the U.S. from 1789-1796), U.S. States and Territories, Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom, other countries from around the world, International law and organizations, and Special Focus collections (e.g. ancient legal systems, comparative law, legal philosophy, military law, Roman law, etc.) 

Canadian content includes Annual Statutes of Canada from 1867 and historical provincial session laws, statutes, and law reports.
link: https://llmc.com

title: LOCUS - SIAM's Online Journal Archive
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals provided by the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics.
link: https://epubs.siam.org/page/locus

title: Lunaris
description: Canada’s national discovery service for multidisciplinary research data from institutions across the country. Datasets from academic, government, and research repositories are made discoverable in a bilingual interface that provides keyword and map-based searching.
link: https://www.lunaris.ca/

title: Maclean's Digital Magazine Archive
description: Maclean's Magazine Archive (1905-2015), the leading Canadian news and general interest magazine, provides a unique perspective on both national and international affairs. Topics include investigative reporting, opinion and analysis on politics, economy and business, science and technology, society, arts and culture, education and work. It was initially known as The Business Magazine, then The Busy Man's Magazine, and changed to the current title, Maclean's, in 1911. Maclean's Magazine Archive is valuable to researchers of 20th-Century current events, gender issues, politics and culture, the history of business, advertising, and more. Full-image archive of Maclean's Magazine from 1905 to 2015. Documents indexed: Journal Articles, Magazine Articles, Newspaper articles
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&custid=s4759561&profile=ehost&defaultdb=mma&groupid=main

title: Manchester Medieval Sources
description: Manchester Medieval Sources is a web-based learning resource containing hundreds of original medieval history documents compiled for the teaching and study of history. There is full-text access to texts from the Manchester Medieval Sources series and links to web resources for the study of medieval history.
link: https://www.manchesterhive.com/collection/manchester-medieval-sources

title: Mass Observation Online
description: Mass-Observation was a pioneering social research organisation whose papers and research provide insights into the cultural and social history of Britain from 1937 to 1972. Publications, reports, diaries and papers from investigators and volunteers document everyday life in Britain.  Concordia's subscription is to Sections I, II and III. Access to Mass Observation Online is provided through a Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN) agreement. This is an Adam Matthew Digital collection.
link: https://www.massobservation.amdigital.co.uk

title: MathSciNet
description: Citations with summaries/reviews to literature in mathematics, statistics, computer science and operations research. Includes journals, proceedings, books, videocassettes. Contains Mathematical Reviews and Current Mathematical Publications Coverage: 1940 onward
link: https://mathscinet.ams.org/mathscinet

title: MCEER: Earthquake Engineering to Extreme Events (Quakeline)
description: Produced by the Multidisciplinary Center for Earthquake Engineering Research (MCEER) at the State University of New York, Buffalo. This database contains technical reports relating to earthquakes, earthquake engineering, national hazard mitigation and related topics. Coverage: 1987 onwards; Documents indexed: Audiovisual Media, Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Maps, Technical Reports
link: https://www.buffalo.edu/mceer/catalog.html

title: Media History Digital Library
description: A free resource providing access to PDF full-image versions of historical magazines and journals in media/cinema.
link: https://mediahistoryproject.org/

title: Medici.tv
description: New add-on: Jazz videos! 

Medici.tv is the largest classical music streaming library in the world featuring over 1,800 classical music videos, concerts, operas, ballets, documentaries, master classes, artists profiles and educational programmes, and now and over 500 Jazz videos. Discover over 100 live event broadcasts from prestigious venues around the world.

Concordia subscribes to the Classical Music Catalog, and the Jazz Catalog.

Also known as: Medici TV
link: https://edu.medici.tv/

title: Medieval travel writing
description: Medieval Travel Writing presents manuscripts of some of the most important works of European travel writing from the later medieval period. Access to Medieval Travel Writing is provided through the Adam Matthew Digital Collections Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN) agreement.
link: http://www.medievaltravel.amdigital.co.uk/

title: MEDLINE
description: MEDLINE provides authoritative medical information on medicine, nursing, dentistry, veterinary medicine, the health care system, pre-clinical sciences, and much more. Created by the National Library of Medicine, MEDLINE uses MeSH (Medical Subject Headings) indexing with tree, tree hierarchy, subheadings and explosion capabilities to search citations from over 4,800 current biomedical journals.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=cmedm

title: Mental Measurements Yearbook (MMY) with Tests in Print
description: Mental Measurements Yearbooks with Tests in Prints is designed to assist professionals in selecting and using standardized tests. The series, initiated in 1938, provides factual information, critical reviews, and comprehensive bibliographic references on the construction, use, and validity of all tests published in English.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=mmt

title: Merck Index Online
description: The Merck Index is a fully-searchable database with over 11,500 monographs on chemicals, drugs, and biologicals. The new online 15th edition also includes historical records not available in the print edition. In addition, the Merck Index includes a reference of over 500 named organic reactions and reference tables that include common abbreviations, chemical structures, constants, and conversions.
link: https://www.rsc.org/merck-index

title: Mergent Archives
description: Mergent Archives is an online database providing access to the D&B Million Dollar Directory Index (MDDI) Archives Collection and the Hoovers Archives Collection. Also MDDI Archives;Hoovers Archives.
link: https://www.mergentarchives.com

title: Mergent Intellect
description: Mergent Intellect provides information on both public and private U.S. companies, Canadian companies, and international companies. Type of information includes business data, industry news, facts and figures, executive contact information, identify parent and subsidiary relationships as well as business and residential directory search.
link: https://www.mergentintellect.com

title: Mergent Market Atlas
description: Available on trial May 1, 2024 - April 30, 2025.

Mergent Market Atlas will be replacing Mergent Online by the end of 2025. It builds upon Mergent Online by offering sustainability data and index reports, as well as an improved interface and optimized search functionality. 

Please note that the analyst reports previously accessed through the Investext tab in Mergent Online are not included in Market Atlas but will be accessible through another platform in 2025. Information will be provided closer to this date.  

Market Atlas is a database of company, industry, country, index, ESG and economic data. Includes:

Standardized and reported fundamentals
Ratio analysis
Historical equity pricing
SEC filings and annual reports
Sustainability (ESG) scores
Officers & directors biographies and compensation
Geographic and business segment data
Consensus estimates
Industry classification schemas
Macro level data
Economic time series data
Russell Index returns
Industry analytics and reports
Economic time series data
D&B Country risk reports
link: https://marketatlas.mergent.com

title: Mergent Online
description: Mergent Online provides business and financial information for U.S. and international companies. In addition to company data, Mergent Online also provides access to global industry reports, SEC filings, equity reports and D&B's international private company directory. 

Note: Analyst reports previously accessed on Thomson One are now available on Mergent Online, from the Investext tab.

Mergent Horizon, a subset of Mergent Online, provides competitor information by product or Trade name, and identifies key relationships  competitors, customers, suppliers, and partners custom formulas, and more. 

Coverage: 1993 onwards Update Frequency: Updated weekly Documents indexed: Annual Reports, Financial Statements
link: https://www.mergentonline.com

title: Middle English compendium
description: The Middle English Compendium includes three major Middle English electronic resources: an electronic version of the Middle English Dictionary (MED), a HyperBibliography of Middle English prose and verse, based on the MED bibliographies, and a Corpus of Middle English Prose and Verse. Documents indexed: Books, Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc)
link: https://quod.lib.umich.edu/m/middle-english-dictionary

title: MIT Press eBooks Library
description: A collection of e-books published by MIT Press in the fields of computer science, artificial intelligence, information theory, computer programming, information technology and electrical engineering. These ebooks are hosted on the IEEE Xplore Digital Library platform.
link: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/mitpress

title: MIT Press Journals
description: This collection of e-journals from MIT Press covers a range of disciplines including the arts and humanities, social sciences, and specialized areas of science and technology. Concordia subscribes to only some of the journals in this database.
link: https://direct.mit.edu/

title: MLA Directory of Periodicals
description: The MLA Directory of Periodicals, produced by the Modern Language Association (MLA), provides detailed information on thousands of journals and book series in the fields of literature, language, linguistics, film, rhetoric and composition, and folklore. Entries cover publication details, contact information, submission requirements and editorial policies, subscription terms, electronic availability and advertising, and useful statistics such as circulation, average number of articles submitted and published, time from submission to decision, and time from decision to publication. All periodicals and book series indexed in the MLA International Bibliography are listed in the directory.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&custid=s4759561&profile=ehost&defaultdb=kah

title: MLA Handbook Plus
description: Full-text access to the Modern Language Association's MLA Handbook, 9th ed., the standard citation guide used for academic writing in the humanities.

The database also includes the first editions of both the MLA Guide to Digital Literacy and the MLA Guide to Undergraduate Research in Literature, and a video course that teaches the principles of MLA documentation style through a series of short videos paired with quizzes, plus a final assessment.

See also: MLA Citation Style on the Library website.
link: https://mlahandbookplus.org/books/book/5/MLA-Handbook

title: MLA International Bibliography Index (EBSCO platform)
description: Produced by the Modern Language Association (MLA) and international in scope, covers modern languages and literatures from Africa, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Europe and the Americas. The MLA International Bibliography (MLAIB) consists of references from more than 4,400 journals in the fields of literature, language, linguistics, folklore, and film and dramatic arts. MLAIB also provides citations to books, essays in books, dissertations, conference proceedings and websites. It features more than 300 full-text journals.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&custid=s4759561&profile=ehost&defaultdb=mzh

title: MSDS - Material Safety Data Sheets
description: MSDS is part of CCINFOweb. FTSS is the French version
link: http://ccinfoweb.ccohs.ca/msds/search.html

title: Music Online: Classical music library
description: Please use headphones while listening in the library.  If you are experiencing problems accessing the content from off-campus, please delete your browser's cookies and temporary internet files.
Classical Music Library is a streaming online music database, featuring classical music from over 32 labels. Contains biographies, a glossary, images, and MIDI files of tens of thousands of licensed recordings that users can listen to over the Internet through headphones. The music moves from Medieval to contemporary, from choral works to symphonies, operas, and the avant-garde. There are recordings from major labels such as EMI, with performances by Maria Callas, Sir Simon Rattle, Herbert von Karajan, Andre Previn, Itzhak Perlman, Placido Domingo, Martha Argerich, Arthur Rubinstein, Jacqueline du Pr, Riccardo Muti, among many other major figures. Independent European and North American record labels including Sanctuary Classics, Hyperion, CBC, and others feature additional renowned artists such as Sir Yehudi Menuhin, Sir Charles Mackerras, Sir Neville Marriner, Felicity Lott, Glenn Gould, Angela Hewitt, Trevor Pinnock, The Sixteen, and the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra.   NOTE: This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections. Documents indexed: Audiovisual Media
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/clmu

title: Music online: classical scores library
description: Classical Scores Library is a collection of classical music scores, manuscripts, and previously unpublished material, allowing users to access multiple types of scores across various composers, genres, and time periods. The database contains full scores, study scores, piano and vocal scores, as well as piano reductions. All opera, vocal, and choral texts are rekeyed to allow for deep searching and textual analysis. Links to the audio recordings in Classical Music Library allow users to listen along while viewing the score.
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/shmu

title: Music online: Jazz music library
description: Jazz Music Library is the most comprehensive collection of jazz recordings available online covering thousands of artists, ensembles, albums, and genres, from all over the world, from the beginnings of jazz to today.  The labels in Jazz Music Library are legendary Verve, GRP Records, Impulse, Jazzology Records, American Music Records, G.H.B. Records, Black Swan Records, Solo Art Records, Circle Records, Paramount, Concord Records, Concord Picante, Concord Jazz, Fantasy Jazz, Contemporary Records, Good Time Jazz, Milestone Records, Monterey Jazz Festival Records, Original Jazz Classics, Pablo Records, Peak Records, Prestige Records, Riverside Records, Stretch Records, Original Jazz Classics -- more than two dozen and growing.
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/jazz

title: Music Online: Smithsonian global sound for libraries
description: Smithsonian Global Sound for Libraries includes the published recordings owned by the non-profit Smithsonian Folkways Recordings label and the archival audio collections of the legendary Folkways Records, Cook, Dyer-Bennet, Fast Folk, Monitor, Paredon and other labels. The collection includes more than 35,000 individual tracks of music, spoken word, and natural and human-made sounds.
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/glmu

title: Music Online: The Garland Encyclopedia of World Music
description: A comprehensive online resource devoted to music of all the world's peoples. Includes more than 9,200 pages of material in ten volumes, each volume containing an overview of the region, a survey of its musical heritage, traditions and themes  and a description of specific musical genres, practices, and performances. Includes: audio examples, illustrations, photographs, maps, drawings, and more.
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/glnd

title: National Bureau of Economic Research publications (NBER Working Papers)
description: Economics working papers from the National Bureau for Economic Research. Coverage: June 1973 onwards Documents indexed: Working Papers
link: https://papers.nber.org/papersbyyear/

title: National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Codes & Standards
description: The National Fire Protection Association develops, publishes, and disseminates more than 300 consensus codes and standards intended to minimize the possibility and effects of fire and other risks. Online registration with the NFPA is required to view the Codes and Standards documents on this site. System requirements: Cookies, JavaScript, and Java Applet downloads must be enabled.
link: https://www.nfpa.org/codes-and-standards/all-codes-and-standards/list-of-codes-and-standards

title: Native Health Database
description: The Native Health Database contains bibliographic information and abstracts of health-related articles, reports, surveys, and other resource documents pertaining to the health and health care of American Indians, Alaska Natives, and Canadian First Nations. The database provides information for the benefit, use, and education of organizations and individuals with an interest in health-related issues, programs, and initiatives regarding North American Indigenous peoples.
link: https://nativehealthdatabase.net/

title: Nature Journals Online
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals. Coverage: 1997 onward
link: https://www.nature.com

title: Naxos music library (NML)
description: Provides a comprehensive collection of classical music with over 100,000 recordings that include the complete catalogues of BIS, Chandos, CPO, Hnssler, Hungaroton, Marco Polo, Naxos and selected titles of other leading independent labels, with more labels being added from time to time.  While listening, users can read notes on the works being played as well as biographical information on composers or artists. The search engine can find works by composer, artist, period, year of composition, instrument or genre.
link: https://cumontreal.naxosmusiclibrary.com

title: Naxos music library. Jazz (NMLJ)
description: Comprehensive collections of Jazz music that offer close to 20,000 tracks of jazz from over 1,850 albums and more than 500 jazz artists. Naxos Music Library Jazz comprises Naxos Jazz and the 22 labels of Fantasy Jazz along with Prophone and Proprius.
link: https://cumontreal.naxosmusiclibrary.com/Jazz

title: New Palgrave dictionary of economics online
description: The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics Online is an authoritative full-text resource tailored for researchers in economics, finance and other related disciplines. The online edition contains over 3,000 articles and is updated quarterly.
link: https://link.springer.com/referencework/10.1057/978-1-349-95121-5

title: New Testament abstracts
description: Includes indexing and abstracts for journal articles, monographs, multi-authored books, book reviews, and biblical software programs. All abstracts are in English, regardless of the language of the original work. It is possible to search by specific scripture passages. Coverage: 1985 onward Documents indexed: Book Reviews, Books, Essays, Journal Articles, Magazine Articles
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=rvh

title: New York Times Book Reviews on the web
description: A free collection of book reviews published in The New York Times since 1981.
link: https://www.nytimes.com/topic/subject/book-reviews

title: NFB Campus / Campus ONF
description: Features films, excerpts, trailers and interactive works produced by the National Film Board of Canada, including documentaries, animations, experimental films and fiction in both French and English.

 To access study guides and other resources intended for instructors, please scroll to the yellow box on this page (&quot;Canadian Teacher? Check here&quot;). Use your Concordia email address and look for an email (including spam folder) from the NFB with a login code and instructions. The pedagogical extras are only available on select films, and in order to view them one must have the account created as above and be logged into it.
link: https://www.nfb.ca/explore-all-films/

title: Nineteenth Century Collections Online (NCCO) (Gale Primary Sources))
description: Digitized collections of primary sources from the 'long' 19th century, currently including the following archives:

- Asia and the West: Diplomacy and Cultural Exchange
- British Politics and Society
- British Theatre, Music, and Literature: High and Popular Culture
- European Literature, 1790-1840: The Corvey Collection
- New as of 2021: Photography: The World through the Lens

Also known as: Gale Primary Sources
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/NCCO?u=concordi_main

title: NIOSHTIC
description: NIOSHTIC is part of CCINFOweb. Coverage: coverage ends mid-1998 Simultaneous Users: Unlimited
link: http://ccinfoweb.ccohs.ca/bibliographic/search.html

title: North American immigrant letters, diaries and oral histories
description: This collection brings together 100,000 pages of material, including Ellis Island Oral Histories, audio files, scrapbooks, previously unpublished diaries (some translations), autobiographies, oral histories, political cartoons and more. The project begins around 1840 and extends to the present, focusing heavily on the period from 1890 to 1920, and represents many countries and groups. In selected cases, audio files will let users hear the actual voices of the immigrants. NOTE: This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections. Coverage: 1840 to the present NOTE: If you are experiencing problems accessing the content from off-campus, please delete your browser's cookies and temporary internet files. Documents indexed: Audiovisual Media, Books, Essays, Pamphlets
link: https://imld.alexanderstreet.com/

title: North American Indian Drama
description: North American Indian Drama contains the text of 261 plays by 49 American Indian and First Nation playwrights of the twentieth century. More than half of the works are previously unpublished, and hard to find. An Alexander Street Press collection.
link: https://solomon.indr.alexanderstreet.com/

title: North American Indian thought and culture
description: Over 100,000 pages of personal stories  many previously unpublished, rare, or hard to find. The collection presents Indian and Canadian First People experiences from their own point of view. Includes photographs and oral histories presented in audio and transcript form. Images include photographs from the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Edward Curtis, and many rare collections. Also included is a detailed timeline of Indian events, cross-referenced by region and tribe, to further aid in contextual placement. Coverage is from the late 18th century to the early 21st century. 
-- NOTE: This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections. Documents indexed: Audiovisual Media, Books, Pamphlets
link: https://asp6new.alexanderstreet.com/ibio/

title: North American theatre online
description: North American Theatre Online is a comprehensive reference work covering all aspects of the Canadian and American Theatre. It includes some 40,000 pages of major reference materials, together with records to more than 30,000 plays, over 57,000 people, 5,400 theatres, nearly 22,000 productions and 2,500 production companies. The file also includes some 10,500 images, playbills, postcards, scrapbooks and other resources. Documents indexed: Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc)
link: https://asp6new.alexanderstreet.com/atho/

title: North American women's drama
description: North American Women's Drama contains more than 1000 plays by more than 240 playwrights, together with information on related productions, theaters, production companies, and more. This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press drama collections, which are cross-searchable in North American Theatre Online. Documents indexed: Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc)
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/wodr

title: North American women's letters and diaries
description: 150,000 pages of letters and diaries of American and Canadian women, including previously unpublished manuscripts. The material is drawn from over 1,000 sources, including journal articles, pamphlets, newsletters, monographs, and conference proceedings. Includes all age groups and life stages, a wide range of ethnicities, geographical regions, the famous, and the not so famous. More than 1,500 biographies representing women from all walks of life, as well as an annotated bibliography of the sources. -- NOTE: This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections. Coverage: Colonial times to 1950 NOTE: If you are experiencing problems accessing the content from off-campus, please delete your browser's cookies and temporary internet files. Documents indexed: Books, Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Newsletters & Bulletins, Pamphlets
link: https://nwld.alexanderstreet.com/

title: NRC Research Press Backfiles
description: Selected backfiles for some of the journals in the NRC full-text collection.
link: https://www.nrcresearchpress.com/

title: NTIS database
description: This database contains records for documents, technical reports, audiovisual materials, and software provided by the U. S. National Technical Information Service (NTIS). Coverage: 1990 onward; Simultaneous Users: Unlimited; Update Frequency: Continuously updated; Documents indexed: Technical Reports
link: https://www.ntis.gov

title: NUMDAM (Free Journals)
description: In order to support mathematical journals, the NUMDAM program has set up free access to bibliographical data and articles of french mathematical journals.  For each journal, all the volumes published up to year 2000 have been retro-digitzed. The articles theirselves are available for online access after a given time (moving wall) during which they are reserved for subscribers. -- The NUMDAM web site (Numérisation de documents anciens mathématiques) offers an open access to the metadata and articles published in mathematical journals.
link: http://www.numdam.org/

title: O'Reilly for Higher Education
description: O'Reilly for Higher Education includes more than 45,000 book titles plus 30,00+ hours of video, proven learning paths, case studies, interactive tutorials, audio books, and videos from O’Reilly’s global conferences. Content is mainly tech and business focused (computer programming and applications, desktop publishing, information technology management and certification, etc). 

Also known as: Safari Books Online.
link: https://www.oreilly.com/library-access/?email=^u

title: ODESI
description: When downloading datasets, make sure to UNCHECK the &quot;Include documentation&quot; box. Failure to do this may result in a &quot;gateway timeout&quot; error.
ODESI provides data access and analysis tools for social survey data from Statistics Canada and Canadian polling data including Centre for Research and Information on Canada (CRIC), Gallup Canada, Gallup Canada, Institute for Social Research (ISR), Listening to Canadians (LTC) and Voice of the People (VoP). Part of the Data Liberation Initiave (DLI).  Full name: Ontario Data Documentation, Extraction Service and Infrastructure Initiative
link: https://odesi.ca/

title: OECD iLibrary
description: OECD iLibrary contains all the publications and datasets released by OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development), International Energy Agency (IEA), Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA), OECD Development Centre, PISA (Programme for International Student Assessment), and International Transport Forum (ITF) since 1998.Formerly known as Source OECD
link: https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/

title: OED (Oxford English dictionary) Online
description: The Oxford English Dictionary is a historical dictionary of English, covering the language from the earliest times to the present day. It aims to show not only the current meanings of words, but also to trace their development through time. Entries contain detailed etymological analysis, and are illustrated by quotations from a wide range of English language sources from around the world, making the OED a unique historical record. Coverage: Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd Edition; Update Frequency: Updated quarterly
link: https://www.oed.com/

title: Old Testament Abstracts
description: The database features indexing and abstracts for journal articles, monographs, multi-author works, and software related to Old Testament studies. Content from more than 450 journals is covered. Topics include antiquities, archaeology, biblical theology, and philology. This resource is the product of a partnership between the American Theological Library Association (ATLA) and the Catholic Biblical Association. Coverage: 1978 to the present Documents indexed: Book Reviews, Books, Essays, Journal Articles, Magazine Articles
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=oah

title: Ontario geospatial data exchange (OGDE)
description: The Ontario Geospatial Data Exchange (OGDE) is a program of the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources. It includes several key datasets: Southern Ontario Land Resource Information System, Digital Elevation Models, Landsat imagery, forestry data, and base mapping data
link: https://library.concordia.ca/research/subjects/geography/geodata.php#ogde

title: OntheBoards.tv
description: Streaming database of HD-quality full-length performance films by international, contemporary, and innovative artists working in dance, theater, music, and “other forms that defy categorization”. This resource also includes curriculum guides and contextual materials for classroom instruction.

Also known as: On the Boards
link: https://www.ontheboards.tv/performances

title: Oral history online
description: This English-language oral history database provides detailed indexing of oral history collections, repositories, and narratives, along with links to full text, audio, and video where available. --- The database also includes 40,000 pages of Ellis Island oral histories in electronic format for the first time, and exclusive Black Panther Party narratives.  New collections will be added regularly. There is a bibliographic record for every interview, collection and repository.  This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections. Coverage: 20th century to present NOTE: If you are experiencing problems accessing the content from off-campus, please delete your browser's cookies and temporary internet files. Documents indexed: Audiovisual Media, Speeches & Transcripts
link: https://asp6new.alexanderstreet.com/orhi/

title: Organic syntheses
description: Organic syntheses is published annually, since 1921. It compiles laboratory methods (verified for reproducibility) emphasizing the preparation of model compounds with unique reactions and procedures that illustrate important types of reactions. Its content is available freely on the Internet and is fully searchable. Coverage: 1921 onwards Simultaneous Users: Unlimited Update Frequency: annually List of Journals Indexed: Organic Syntheses Access Organic Syntheses procedures via the table of contents or by keyword searching (chemical name, molecular formula, CAS RN). Searches by structure and substructure are also possible.
link: http://www.orgsyn.org/

title: OSHLINE
description: OSHLINE is part of CCINFOweb. Coverage: 1998 onward; Simultaneous Users: Unlimited
link: http://ccinfoweb.ccohs.ca/bibliographic/search.html

title: Oxford art online
description: Oxford Art Online provides cross-searchable access to Grove Art Online (GAO), Benezit Dictionary of Artists, The Oxford Companion to Western Art, The Encyclopedia of Aesthetics and The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Art Terms

Benezit Dictionary of Artists has a 5 simultaneous user limit.
Grove Art Online has a 3 simultaneous user limit.
link: https://www.oxfordartonline.com

title: Oxford Biblical Studies Online (OBSO)
description: This database was retired on June 21, 2022. Most reference works included on OBSO are now available on Oxford Reference Online Premium.

A collection of annotated Bible texts, as well as an A-Z reference source. Includes  thousands of entries/chapters from other Oxford sources, as well as images, maps, timelines, and numerous other tools & resources.
link: http://www.oxfordbiblicalstudies.com/

title: Oxford Bibliographies
description: A collection of research guides providing overviews of scholarship in a variety of humanities and social sciences subject areas. 

Concordia has access to the following guides:
African Studies
Atlantic History
Anthropology
Art History
Biblical Studies
Cinema and Media Studies
Communication
Hinduism
International Relations
Linguistics
Literary and Critical Theory
Political Science
Psychology
Renaissance and Reformation
Sociology
link: https://www.oxfordbibliographies.com

title: Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (DNB)
description: Reference work providing over 50,000 specially-written signed biographies of the men and women who shaped all aspects of the British past, from the earliest times to 4 years prior to the current date. Coverage: 4th century BC to the year 2006 (periodically extended); Update Frequency: 3 times a year (January, May, and October)

Access is limited to 3 concurrent users. Please  close your browser tab or navigate away from the DNB website when you're finished using it.
link: https://www.oxforddnb.com

title: Oxford Handbooks Online
description: Oxford Handbooks Online provides scholarly review articles summarizing current thinking and research in a range of subjects across the humanities, social sciences, and sciences. 

The handbooks offer in-depth introductions to topics and critical surveys of the current state of scholarship in their field. Concordia has access to select titles within 11 subject areas: Business & Management, Classical Studies, History, Literature, Music, Philosophy, Politics, Psychology, Religion, Social Work, and Sociology.
link: https://academic.oup.com/oxford-handbooks-online

title: Oxford Islamic Studies Online (OISO)
description: This database was retired on June 21, 2022. Most reference works included on OISO are now available on Oxford Reference Online Premium.

A reference database covering the history and culture of Islam and providing full-text access to Oxford reference and scholarly works, including the Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World, The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Modern Islamic World, The Oxford History of Islam, The Oxford Dictionary of Islam as well as two classic interpretations of the Qur'an, a Concordance of the Qur'an, images, maps, and timelines.
link: https://www.oxfordreference.com/page/oxfordislamicstudies/

title: Oxford journals - CRKN
description: Full text of over 200 Oxford University Press journals. Acknowledgements: Access to the Oxford Journals - CRKN  is provided thanks to the Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN). Documents indexed: Journal Articles
link: https://academic.oup.com/journals

title: Oxford Journals Archive - CRKN
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals
link: https://academic.oup.com/journals

title: Oxford music online
description: Oxford Music Online provides cross-searchable access to Grove Music Online (GMO), an integrated music resource on the web, which includes the full text of:

- The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians (second edition - 29 volumes)
- The New Grove Dictionary of Opera (4 volumes)
- The New Grove Dictionary of Jazz (second edition - 3 volumes). 
- The Norton Grove Dictionary of Women Composers (1 volume, 1994)
- The Grove Dictionary of American Music, 2nd edition (8 volumes, 2013; in process)
- The Grove Dictionary of Musical Instruments, 2nd edition (5 volumes, 2014; in process)

From the search results screen, users have the option to access full-text entries from two additional publications, The Oxford Companion to Music and The Oxford Dictionary of Music.

Grove Music Online is updated annually to ensure it remains the most up to date music reference work on the Internet.
link: https://www.oxfordmusiconline.com

title: Oxford Reference Online Premium
description: Contains dictionary, language reference, and subject reference works published by Oxford University Press. It is a fully-indexed, cross-searchable database of these reference books, and covers 25 subject areas. A broad subject range of titles from the Oxford Companions Series is available, as well as the Oxford Dictionary of Quotations.

Content formerly available on Oxford Biblical Studies Online and Oxford Islamic Studies Online are now exclusively available on Oxford Reference.
link: https://www.oxfordreference.com/

title: Oxford Research Encyclopedias
description: Oxford Research Encyclopedias are comprehensive collections of in-depth, peer-reviewed summaries on a range of topics within a given discipline. Summaries are written by experts in the field and can be read in 30 minutes or less.

Concordia has purchased the following encyclopedias:

Communication
Education
Politics

Also known as: ORE
link: https://oxfordre.com

title: Oxford University Press e-books (CRKN DCI Project)
description: Oxford University Press e-books is a collection of more than 5,300 humanities and social sciences titles from 1948 to the present. These ebooks are available on the MyiLibrary platform, and were acquired as part of the CRKN DCI Project (Ingram Digital E-books package).
link: https://lib.myilibrary.com/Home.aspx

title: PAIS Index
description: PAIS Index (which includes PAIS International and PAIS Archive) provides worldwide coverage of political, social, and economic issues. PAIS indexes books and journals (over 1,800 journals in six languages) dealing with a wide range of subjects including political science, international relations, human rights, government policy, military conflicts, development issues, and labour conditions. PAIS Archive covers global public policy and social issues from 1915 to 1976. NOTE: about 300 selected articles from among those indexed in PAIS International are available with fulltext in PAIS Select for the years 1995-1997 ONLY. Coverage: 1972 onward; Update Frequency: Updated monthly; Documents indexed: Book Reviews, Books, Government Documents, Journal Articles; List of Journals Indexed: PAIS International Journals List.
link: https://search.proquest.com/pais/advanced?accountid=10246

title: PAO Collection 1 - 7
description: Periodicals Archive Online offers hundreds of digitized journals dating from 1802 to 2000, and provides over 1.7 million articles in thirty-seven key subject areas in the arts, humanities and social sciences. Some 20 percent of the journals are in non-English languages.
link: https://search.proquest.com/pao/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Paper of Record
description: NOTE:  Please log out (top-right hand side) when you are finished using this resource.
Searchable archive of full-page images of historical newspapers from Canada , the US, Latin America, Europe and Australia, with coverage mostly from the 1800s to early/mid 1900s.
link: https://paperofrecord.hypernet.ca/search.asp

title: Passport GMID (Global Market Information Database)
description: An international market research and analysis database that provides detailed reports and statistics on countries, companies, markets, economies and consumers. Country statistics contain demographic, economic and marketing statistics. The Cities Module provides economic performance indicators for major Canadian and international cities. Market reports contain international market performance, important developments in the product sector and competition strategy. Company reports offer strategic profiles of the leading multinationals in the industry. Consumer lifestyle examines indicators, choices and factors to compare market conditions around the world. Access to the &quot;Economic Observer&quot; dashboard is included. Formerly known as Euromonitor
link: https://www.portal.euromonitor.com/portal/server.pt

title: Past masters
description: Past Masters is a full-text database of published and unpublished works, articles and essays, reviews and drama and correspondence. It contains complete collections of editions, in both original language and in English translation, of seminal figures in the humanities and social sciences. Documents indexed: Books, Essays.  Also known as Intelex past masters.
link: http://library.nlx.com/

title: Peeters online journals
description: A collection of full-text e-journals Concordia subscribes to only some of the title in this database.
link: https://poj.peeters-leuven.be

title: Performing Arts Periodicals Database
description: Covers a wide range of subjects in the performing arts: dance, film, drama, opera, stagecraft, comedy, pantomime, puppetry, magic and television. Provides indexing and abstracts of the performing arts for around 230 international periodicals, plus full text for 73 journals. The database currently includes over 294,000 article records, the majority of which index the most recent six years of publication. Coverage: 1864 onwards for indexing of selective titles,  1932 onwards for selective full-text,  abstracts available for all articles from 1998 onwards. Around 114,000 index records are from the backfile (up to 1997) and much of this coverage commences at the first issue of the journal run. Update Frequency: monthly; Documents indexed: Journal Articles. Also known as: International Index to Performing Arts (IIPA).
link: https://search.proquest.com/iipa/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Persée  Portail de revues scientiques en sciences humaines et sociales
description: Open access to digitized back volumes of journals in the Humanities and Social Sciences published in France.
link: https://www.persee.fr/

title: Petit Robert de la langue française
description: Electronic version of the most recent edition of Le Petit Robert. Entries include examples of use, etymology and quotations from famous writers. Several entries also provide an audio file with the pronunciation of the words. Also known as Nouveau Petit Robert.
link: https://syrano.demarque.com/Access/index.php?idRelPC=205942

title: Philosopher's index
description: Philosopher's Index provides indexing and abstracts from books and from more than 480 journals of philosophy and related fields. It covers the areas of aesthetics, axiology, epistemology, ethics, logic (including mathematics), metaphysics (including philosophy of mind, existentialism and phenomenology), philosophical anthropology, philosophy (including metaphilosophy), political philosophy, social philosophy, as well as material on the philosophy of law, religion, science, history, education, and language. Coverage: 1940 onward; Update Frequency: Updated quarterly; Documents indexed: Books, Journal Articles
link: https://search.proquest.com/philosophersindex/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Philosophy Documentation Center Collection
description: This is a collection of full-text journals in philosophy.  Concordia subscribes to selected titles in this collection.
link: https://www.pdcnet.org/

title: PhilPapers: Online Research in Philosophy
description: Directory of online philosophical articles and books by academic philosophers.
link: https://philpapers.org

title: Picture Post Historical Archive, 1938-1957
description: The complete archive of the Picture Post from its first issue in 1938 to its last in 1957 - all digitized from originals in full colour. Provides a fascinating snapshot of British life from the 1930s to the 1950s, with thousands of photos of ordinary people doing ordinary things  from boys rolling a tyre, to a view of a postwar bedsit, to young women on a rollercoaster  all caught in a single moment in time.
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/PIPO?u=concordi_main

title: Play Index (H.W. Wilson)
description: Play Index contains references to more than 30,000 plays from Greek tragedies to Broadway hits published in collections, anthologies, and periodicals. Coverage: 1949 onward Documents indexed: Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc) Update Frequency: weekly
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=pix

title: Political Extremism and Radicalism
description: Concordia has access to Part I: Far-Right and Left Political Groups in the U.S., Europe, and Australia in the Twentieth Century, a collection of primary sources documenting political extremism and radical thought in the U.S., Europe, and Australia from 1900 - 2010s. Includes periodicals, campaign propaganda, government records, oral histories, and various ephemera.

Also known as: Gale Primary Sources
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/PLEX?u=concordi_main

title: Political handbook of the world
description: Political Handbook of the World 2009 is an authoritative source for finding complete facts and analysis on each countrys governmental and political makeup. It includes extensive coverage of all major and minor political parties and groups in each political system around the world. It also provides names of key ambassadors and international memberships of each country, plus profiles of over 75 intergovernmental organizations (IGOs).
link: https://library.cqpress.com/phw/

title: Political Science Complete (PSC)
description: Contains full text for more than 500 Political Science journals, and indexing and abstracts for over 2,900 titles  also features over 340 full-text reference books and monographs, and over 36,000 full-text conference papers, including those of the International Political Science Association. A subject-specific thesaurus with over 17,500 terms provides subject searching guidance to researchers.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=poh

title: Population Index
description: Population Index covers all fields of interest to demographers, including fertility, mortality, population size and growth, migration, nuptiality and the family, research methodology, projections and predictions, historical demography, and demographic and economic interrelations. Indexes monographs, journal articles, working papers, and doctoral dissertations. Coverage: 1986-1999 Simultaneous Users: Unlimited Documents indexed: Books, Journal Articles, Theses & Dissertations, Working Papers
link: https://popindex.princeton.edu/

title: Portico (Triggered Content)
description: Portico provides a permanent archive of scholarly literature published in electronic form, including electronic books and electronic journals. Campus-wide access to archived content will be granted to libraries supporting Portico when specific conditions are met that cause titles to no longer be available from the publisher or any other source. These specific conditions are often called trigger events and include:  a publisher stops operations, or  a publisher ceases to publish a title, or  a publisher no longer offers back issues, or  upon catastrophic and sustained failure of a publisher's delivery platform.
link: https://www.portico.org/coverage/triggered-content/

title: Project Euclid Direct
description: Project Euclid offers access to high-quality, peer-reviewed journals in the field of theoretical and applied mathematics and statistics. Concordia subscribes to only some of the journals in this database.
link: https://projecteuclid.org/Browse

title: Project Euclid Prime Collection
description: Project Euclid offers access to 30 peer-reviewed journals in the field of theoretical and applied mathematics and statistics.
link: https://projecteuclid.org/Search

title: Project MUSE - Premium Collection
description: Provides access to the fulltext of more than 600 scholarly journals in the arts and humanities, social sciences, and mathematics via Project MUSE's integrated ebook/journal platform. Documents indexed: Journal Articles
link: https://muse.jhu.edu/browse/titles/all?browse_view_type=list&limit_content_type=journal#limit_access=valid

title: ProQuest Arts Databases
description: ProQuest Arts Databases includes the following databases: ArtsBibliographies Modern, Arts and Humanities Database, Humanities Index, DAAI: Design and Applied Arts Index, International Bibliography of Art, Performing Arts Periodicals and Vogue Archive. Documents indexed: Journal Articles, Magazine Articles, Newspaper articles
link: https://search.proquest.com/arts?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Business Databases
description: ProQuest Business Databases includes the following databases: ABI/INFORM Complete, Canadian Newsstream (full text access to Canadian daily newspapers with local and regional coverage -- formerly &quot;Canadian Newsstand&quot;), Canadian Business & Current Affairs (CBCA) Databases of reference and current events (which cover: Business  Health & Medicine  History  Literature & Language  Science & Technology  Social Sciences  The Arts), Canadian Research Index, Business Market Research Collection (which includes the Hoover's Company Profiles), ProQuest Asian Business, ProQuest European Business, ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global (full text), ProQuest Historical Annual Reports, all the ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Washington Post and the Toronto Star. Documents indexed: Journal Articles, Magazine Articles, Newspaper articles
link: https://www.proquest.com/business/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Central
description: ProQuest Central includes databases in business, health and medical, social sciences, education, science and technology, as well as core titles in the Performing and Visual arts, History, Religion, Philosophy, and Language and Literature. The collection provides access to not only scholarly journals, but also to high value market research, country, economic, and industry reports, essential pre-print working papers, and full-text dissertations, as well as a vast number of professional journals, and general interest periodicals. It also includes thousands of full-text news sources from all over the world, which provide context to the scholarly content in ProQuest Central.

Proquest Central includes the following databases:
ABI/INFORM Collection   (1971 - current)  
Accounting, Tax & Banking Collection   (1971 - current) 
Advanced Technologies & Aerospace Database  
Agriculture Science Database   (1998 - current) 
Arts & Humanities Database   
Asian & European Business Collection   (1971 - current)  
Australia & New Zealand Database   
Biological Science Database   
Business Market Research Collection   (1986 - current) 
Canadian Business & Current Affairs Database   
Canadian Newsstream   
Career & Technical Education Database   
Computer Science Database   
Consumer Health Database   
Continental Europe Database   
Criminal Justice Database   (1981 - current)  
Earth, Atmospheric & Aquatic Science Database   
East & South Asia Database   
 East Europe, Central Europe Database   
Education Database   (1988 - current)  
Engineering Database   
Environmental Science Database  
Global Breaking Newswires   
Health & Medical Collection   
Healthcare Administration Database  
 India Database   (1998 - current)  
International Newsstream  
 Latin America & Iberia Database   
Library Science Database   (1970 - current) 
Linguistics Database   
Materials Science Database  
Middle East & Africa Database   
Military Database   
Nursing & Allied Health Database   
Political Science Database   (1985 - current)  
Psychology Database   
Public Health Database   
Publicly Available Content Database   
Religion Database   (1986 - current) 
Research Library   
Science Database   
Social Science Database   
Sociology Database   (1985 - current)  
Telecommunications Database   (1995 - current) 
Turkey Database   information 
U.S. Newsstream   (1980 - current)  information 
UK & Ireland Database

Please use the Select Databases tool to find out more about the content of the the databases included in Proquest Central, or to select additional databases for your search
link: https://search.proquest.com/central/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest combined Canadian
description: ProQuest combined Canadian databases include:  Canadian Newsstream (full text access to Canadian daily newspapers with local and regional coverage -- formerly &quot;Canadian Newsstand&quot;);  Canadian Business & Current Affairs (CBCA). Databases of reference and current events (which cover: Business;  Health & Medicine;  History; Literature & Language;  Science & Technology;  Social Sciences; The Arts); Canadian Research Index;  ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global (Full Text). 
Documents indexed: Book Reviews, Film Reviews, Journal Articles, Magazine Articles, Newspaper articles, Theses & Dissertations
link: https://search.proquest.com/cv_580429/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global (PQDT)
description: Citations with abstracts for doctoral dissertations and master's theses from North American and European graduate schools, published from 1743 to the present day  offering full text for works added since 1997, along with selected full text for works written prior to 1997. Coverage: 1861 onwards (Most of the full text starts from 1997 to the present including some that go as far back as the early 1900's). Update Frequency: Every year, more than 55,000 new citations are added. Documents indexed: Theses & Dissertations
link: https://search.proquest.com/pqdtglobal/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Early Film databases
description: ProQuest Early Film Databases includes the following databases: Entertainment Industry Magazine Archive, American Periodicals, British Periodicals, Periodical Archives Online, ProQuest Historical Newspapers (all titles). Documents indexed: Journal Articles, Magazine Articles, Newspaper articles
link: https://search.proquest.com/cv_1895372?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Historical Newspapers
description: Digital reproductions of every page from every issue, cover to cover, in PDF format, complete with ads, classifieds, photos, and inserts of: New York Times (including Book Review and Magazine), Wall Street Journal, Washington Post.
link: https://search.proquest.com/advanced?accountid=10246&selectids=1007155,1007154,1006359

title: ProQuest Historical Newspapers: Chicago defender
description: This collection contains every issue of the newspaper the Chicago Defender published between 1910 to 2010, including all articles, illustrations, and advertisements. Each issue has been fully digitized and indexed. The Chicago Defender was the most influential African-American newspaper of the 20th century, and is a source of perspectives and information that was excluded or marginalized in mainstream sources. With the majority of its readership outside the Chicago region, it served as the de facto national black newspaper in the U.S.
link: https://www.proquest.com/hnpchicagodefender1?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Historical Newspapers: Globe and Mail
description: Electronic full-page newspaper archive of the Globe and Mail newspaper, and its earlier title, the Globe, from June 1844 to 3 years ago (there is a 3-year embargo). Coverage includes all the stories, plus thousands of images, advertisements, classifieds, political cartoons, births and deaths from more than 1.4 million pages of Canada's National Newspaper, dating back to the pre-confederation era. Coverage: 1844 to three years ago (3 year embargo) Update frequency: Annually
link: https://search.proquest.com/hnpglobeandmail/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Historical Newspapers: Irish Times
description: This database offers full-page-images and article images from the Irish Times (1859-current file) and the Irish Weekly Times Archive (1876-1958). Every year an additional year of content is added. Coverage: From 1859 to current file (two year embargo).
link: https://search.proquest.com/hnpirishtimes/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Historical Newspapers: Jerusalem Post
description: This database offers full-page images and article images from the Jerusalem Post (1932-1988). Coverage: From 1932 to 1988.
link: https://search.proquest.com/hnpjerusalempost/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The New York Times
description: This historical archive of the New York Times newspaper provides easily-searchable coverage of the politics, society and event of the time. It includes a digital reproduction of every page from every issue, cover to cover, in PDF format, complete with ads, classifieds, photos, and inserts. Coverage from 1851 to 3 years ago (there is a 3-year embargo).
link: https://search.proquest.com/hnpnewyorktimes/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Historical Newspapers: Toronto Star
description: This historical archive of the Toronto Star newspaper provides easily-searchable coverage of the politics, society and events of the time. It includes a digital reproduction of every page from every issue, cover to cover, in PDF format, complete with ads, classifieds, photos, and inserts. Will be updated annually with an additional year of data. Coverage from 1894 to 3 years ago (there is a 3-year embargo).
link: https://search.proquest.com/hnptorontostar/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Historical Newspapers: Wall Street Journal
description: The historical archive of the Wall Street Journal provides easily-searchable coverage of the politics, society and events of the time. It includes a digital reproduction of every page from every issue, cover to cover, in PDF format, complete with ads, classifieds, photos, and inserts.
link: https://search.proquest.com/hnpwallstreetjournal/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Historical Newspapers: Washington Post (1877-2001)
description: This historical archive of the Washington Post and Times Herald newspaper provides easily-searchable coverage of the politics, society and events of the time. It includes a digital reproduction of every page from every issue, cover to cover, in PDF format, complete with ads, classifieds, photos, and inserts.
link: https://search.proquest.com/hnpwashingtonpost/advanced?accountid=10246

title: ProQuest Recent Newspapers: Barron's
description: Full-page scanned images of Barron's, digitized from microfilm. Coverage: 2008 - recent (3-month embargo).
link: https://search.proquest.com/pdnbarrons

title: ProQuest Recent Newspapers: Montreal Gazette
description: Full-page scanned images of The Montreal Gazette, digitized from microfilm. Coverage: 2011 - recent (3-month embargo).
link: https://search.proquest.com/pdnmontrealgazette

title: ProQuest U.K. Parliamentary Papers
description: Coverage: 1801onward Documents indexed: Government Documents
link: https://parlipapers.proquest.com/parlipapers/search/advanced/hcppadvanced?accountid=10246

title: PsycArticles
description: Produced by the American Psychological Association (APA). This is a database of full-text English-language articles, errata, and letters to the editor from journals published by the APA, the APA Educational Publishing Foundation, the Canadian Psychological Association, and Hogrefe Publishing Group. Coverage: 1894 to the present (varies by title). Most APA titles go back to Volume 1, Issue 1. Documents indexed: Journal Articles
link: https://psycnet.apa.org

title: PsychiatryOnline Core Package (POL) - DSM-5 online version
description: Psychiatric diagnoses are categorized by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (5th Edition), better known as the DSM-5. This is the online version of the manual, published by the American Psychiatric Association. It covers all mental health disorders for both children and adults. It also lists known causes of these disorders, statistics in terms of gender, age at onset, and prognosis as well as some research concerning the optimal treatment approaches. The Psychiatry Online (POL) Core package includes the DSM5 current edition (DSM5 Handbook of Differential Diagnosis, and DSM5 Clinical Cases) as well as 3 online journals: &quot;American Journal of Psychiatry&quot;, &quot;Psychiatric Services&quot;, and &quot;Psychiatric News&quot;.
link: https://psychiatryonline.org/

title: Psychology & Behavioral Sciences Collection
description: Psychology & Behavioral Sciences Collection is a comprehensive database covering information concerning topics in emotional and behavioral characteristics, psychiatry & psychology, mental processes, anthropology, and observational & experimental methods. This is the world's largest full text psychology database offering full text coverage for nearly 560 journals.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=pbh

title: Psychotherapy.net
description: The Psychotherapy.net streaming video collection covers the fields of psychotherapy, counselling, addictions and psychology. Concordia subscribes to the “Essential Collection” and has access to 50 videos on this platform.
link: https://www.psychotherapy.net/stream/concordia-ca

title: PsycINFO
description: As of December 1st, 2018, online access to this database is available on the American Psychological Association's (APA) platform. All three resources (PsycINFO, PsycARTICLES, and APA Books) are cross-searchable on the same platform.

This American Psychological Association (APA) database contains more than 2 million citations and summaries of scholarly journal articles, book chapters, books, technical reports and dissertations, all in psychology and related disciplines, dating as far back as the 1800s. 97 percent of the covered material is peer-reviewed. Journal coverage includes international material selected from nearly 2,000 periodicals in more than 25 languages. Coverage: 1887 onward Documents indexed: Books, Journal Articles, Technical Reports, Theses & Dissertations
link: https://psycnet.apa.org/search/advanced

title: Public Library of Science - PLoS  (Free Journals)
description: This is a collection of full-text open access e-journals
link: https://www.plos.org/journals/

title: PubMed (Medline)
description: PubMed database provides citations with abstracts to worldwide biomedical literature. Covers research, clinical practice, administration, policy issues and healthcare. Includes all foreign languages and is fully indexed. Coverage: 1953 onward; Update Frequency: Daily; Documents indexed: Journal Articles.
link: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez?otool=icacullib

title: PubMed Central (Free Journals)
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals
link: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/

title: Punch historical archive, 1841-1992 (Gale Primary Sources)
description: Punch was a British weekly magazine of wit and satire founded in 1841. This is a complete archive, including Almanacks and other special issues, as well as prefaces, epilogues, indexes, and other specially produced material from the bound volumes. The images in the archive appear as originally published. 
Also known as: Gale Primary Sources
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/PNCH?u=concordi_main

title: Queen Victoria's Journals
description: Queen Victoria's Journals is a fully searchable digital edition of the 141 volumes of Queen Victoria's surviving diaries. In addition to autograph diaries begun by the youthful Princess Victoria, there are edited versions from her later years, redacted and transcribed by the Queen’s daughter, Princess Beatrice.
link: http://qvj.chadwyck.com/

title: Race Relations Abstracts
description: Bibliographic records covering subject areas related to race relations, including ethnic studies, discrimination, immigration studies, cultural identity and more. EBSCO has digitized the full archive of this index, bringing coverage back to 1975.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&custid=s4759561&profile=ehost&defaultdb=25h&groupid=main

title: RAMBI: Index to articles on Jewish Studies
description: A selective bibliography of articles in Jewish Studies, Judaica, and the study of Eretz Israel, including Biblical studies. Articles are from thousands of periodicals and collections of articles, selected on the basis of their value for research. The database includes articles in English, German, French, and other European languages, as well as Hebrew and Yiddish. Coverage: 1966 onward Documents indexed: Essays, Journal Articles
link: https://web.nli.org.il/sites/NLI/English/infochannels/Catalogs/bibliographic-databases/rambi/Pages/rambi.aspx

title: RAND documents
description: Rand's publication database allows you to search the record of all Rand's publicly available documents to retrieve abstracts to their publications.Most of the publicly available research documents published since 1998 are available on the RAND site.  Areas of expertise: child policy, civil and criminal justice, education, environment and energy, health, international policy, labor markets, national security, population and regional studies, science and technology, social welfare and transportation.  English. Full-text (Available on the Research Publications page). Several series (print copy) from Rand Corporation: Rand Note (N), Rand Paper (P), Rand Report (R), and Research Memorandum (RM) are available in Webster Library Government Information Services and Reference Information Services. Documents indexed: Books, Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Reports
link: https://www.rand.org/pubs.html

title: Refugees, Relief, and Resettlement: Forced Migration and World War II
description: This collection of primary sources chronicles the plight of refugees and displaced persons across Europe, North Africa, and Asia from 1935 to 1950. Includes over 590,000 pages of pamphlets, ephemera, government documents, relief organization publications, and refugee reports that recount the causes, effects and responses to refugee crises before, during and shortly after World War II.

Also known as: Gale Primary Sources
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/RRRW?u=concordi_main

title: Religion & Philosophy Collection
description: Religion & Philosophy Collection provides extensive coverage of such topics as world religions, major denominations, biblical studies, religious history, epistemology, political philosophy, philosophy of language, moral philosophy and the history of philosophy. Religion & Philosophy Collection offers nearly 300 full text journals, including more than 250 peer-reviewed titles, making it an essential tool for researchers and students of theology and philosophical studies.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=rlh

title: Religion & Philosophy Collection (EBSCO)
description: Religion & Philosophy Collection provides extensive coverage of such topics as world religions, major denominations, biblical studies, religious history, epistemology, political philosophy, philosophy of language, moral philosophy and the history of philosophy. Religion & Philosophy Collection offers nearly 300 full text journals, including more than 250 peer-reviewed titles, making it an essential tool for researchers and students of theology and philosophical studies.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=rlh

title: Religions of America (Gale Primary Sources)
description: A collection of primary sources that cover religious movements that originated in, or were re-shaped by, the United States during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Features a wide variety of periodicals, newspapers, manuscripts, pamphlets, newsletters, ephemera and visual materials. 

Includes these sub-collections:

American Religions Collection
Christian Identity Materials from the Hall-Hoag Collection of Dissenting and Extremist Printed Propaganda
FBI File on Jonestown
FBI File on Waco / Branch Davidian Compound
FBI File on the Moorish Science Temple of America
The Shaker Collection
Utah and the Mormons

Also known as: Gale Primary Sources
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/ROAM?u=concordi_main

title: Religious and theological abstracts
description: Provides objective summaries of articles appearing in scholarly journals in the fields of Religion and Theology. This database also lists a wide variety of periodical literature, including Christian, Jewish, and other World religions and provides English language abstracts of articles in English, Hebrew, Afrikaans, and major European languages. Documents indexed: Journal Articles
link: https://rtabstracts.org/search/advsearch.php

title: Repère
description: Repère is a multidisciplinary index of articles published in 270 French-language periodicals: 185 Québec periodicals, 10 Canadian periodicals from outside of Québec and 70 periodicals from Europe. 
Coverage: Index: 1980 onward. 
Documents indexed: Journal Articles
Help file: Repere Quick Reference Guide and Repere User Guide
link: https://repere4.sdmliaisons.org

title: RIBA (Royal institute of British Architects Library) Library online catalogue
description: This database is the free online catalogue of the British Architectural Library and it provides acess to over 215,000 records covering all aspects of architecture and the built environment. It consists of over 300 well respected periodicals in 20 languages  27,000 books  23,000 records of drawings, photographs and manuscripts. Coverage: Early 1980's onwards Documents indexed: Art Reproductions, Audiovisual Media, Books, Journal Articles
link: https://riba.sirsidynix.net.uk/uhtbin/webcat

title: Rich Data Services (RDS)
description: Rich Data Services (RDS) is Statistics Canada’s analytical platform for Public Use Microdata files (PUMFs) and their metadata. The RDS Explorer and Tabulation Engine's user-friendly interfaces allow users to browse, interact, and download data and metadata for online or offline analysis.
Note that the PUMFs collection available through RDS is still incomplete. To have access to all available PUMFs, please use Odesi.
link: https://rich-data-services.statcan.gc.ca/rds/en/

title: RILM Abstracts of Music Literature
description: Published since 1967 by Répertoire International de Littérature Musicale (New York), RILM contains records in over 100 languages  entries include original-language titles, title translations in English, full bibliographic information, and abstracts in English, as well as author, journal, and in-depth subject indexes.  RILM currently contains nearly 400,000 entries which include music related works from articles, books, bibliographies, dissertations, film & video to concert reviews and recording notes - provided the items are of scholarly interest. Subject areas include: historical musicology, ethnomusicology, instruments and voice, librarianship, performance practice and notation, theory and analysis, pedagogy, liturgy, dance, criticism, music therapy, and interdisciplinary studies on music and various other fields, including literature, dramatic arts, visual arts, acoustics, aesthetics, anthropology, sociology, linguistics and semiotics, mathematics, philosophy, physiology, psychology, and physics. Documents indexed: Audiovisual Media, Book Reviews, Books, Conference Proceedings, Film Reviews, Journal Articles, Theses & Dissertations
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=rih

title: Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) journals
description: Full text of most Royal Society of Chemistry electronic journals Acknowledgements: Access to Royal Society of Chemistry journals is provided thanks to the Canadian Site Licensing Project (CRKN)
link: https://pubs.rsc.org/en/Journals?key=Title&value=Current

title: Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) Journals Archive (1841-2004)
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals
link: https://pubs.rsc.org/en/journals?key=title&value=archive

title: SAE Mobilus: Current Aerospace Standards
description: SAE Mobilus is an engineering database specializing in aerospace, commercial vehicle, and automotive engineering. Concordia has access to the current aerospace standards issued by the Society of Automotive Engineers' aerospace committees.

From the search results page, please use the &quot;My Access&quot; filter to exclude documents not included in Concordia's subscription.
link: https://saemobilus.sae.org/

title: SAGE Business Cases
description: Collection of over 3,000 business case studies covering the following subjects: entrepreneurship, human resource management, international business, business ethics & corporate social responsibility, marketing, operations management, strategic management and more. Wide range of topics and industries, as well as leading global brands and companies. Also known as: Sage Research Methods Business Cases.
link: https://sk.sagepub.com/cases

title: SAGE Deep Backfile 2009, 2015, 2018
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals in Business, Humanities, Social Sciences, and Science, Technology and Medicine.
link: https://journals.sagepub.com/

title: SAGE Premier - CRKN
description: Collection of over 800 full-text online journals in Business, Humanities, Social Sciences, and Science, Technology and Medicine.
link: https://journals.sagepub.com/

title: SAGE Research Methods Cases - Part 1
description: Collection of hundreds of case studies of actual research projects from many different disciplines to show how methods are applied.Cases are original and specially commissioned to help students understand often abstract methodological concepts by underscoring the nuances and decisions researchers face when designing projects.
link: https://methods.sagepub.com/cases

title: SAGE Research Methods Online
description: Platform providing access to full-text content related to research methodology in SAGE books, journals and reference works, along with advanced search and discovery tools.Also known as: SAGE Research Methods Books & Reference.
link: https://methods.sagepub.com/Search

title: ScienceDirect  Journals
description: Full text of more than 1,800 Elsevier Science journals in the life, physical, medical, technical, and social sciences. Contains abstracts and articles from the core journals in major scientific disciplines. Please note that some titles are not available - these are identified by a white icon indicating &quot;non-subscribed&quot;. Coverage: 1995 onward, plus extensive backfiles for journals in the areas of economics and psychology. Documents indexed: Journal Articles Acknowledgements: Access to this ScienceDirect is provided thanks to the Canadian Site Licensing Project (CRKN)
link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/search

title: ScienceDirect eBooks
description: Collection of e-book titles spanning many scientific disciplines (&quot;Biochemistry, Genetics and Molecular Biology&quot;, Engineering, Environmental Science, Finance, &quot;Immunology and Microbiology&quot;, Mathematics, Computer Science, Physics/Astronomy and Materials Science). Titles from imprints such as Elsevier, Academic Press and Pergamon. Access is available via the ScienceDirect platform. Documents indexed: Books
link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/books/all/fulltext

title: Scopus
description: Abstract and citation database containing both peer-reviewed research literature and quality web sources. With over 19,000 titles from more than 5,000 international publishers, SciVerse Scopus covers scientific, technical, medical and social sciences fields as well as the arts and humanities.
link: https://www.scopus.com/home.url

title: SEDAR (System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval)
description: Free resource providing access to the disclosure documents of public companies and investment funds across Canada.   All Canadian public companies and investment funds are generally required to file their documents in the SEDAR system. In addition, some third parties who are involved in public company transactions such as take-over bids or proxy contests may be required to file.
link: https://www.sedar.com/

title: Short Story Index (H.W. Wilson)
description: Short story index contains references to approximately 65,000 short stories, in English or English translation, that are published in collections and selected periodicals. The full text of about 900 stories is included. Coverage: 1984 onward Documents indexed: Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc) Update Frequency: daily
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=ssx

title: SIAM journals Online
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals published by the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM).
link: https://epubs.siam.org/journals

title: SimplyAnalytics Canada
description: SimplyAnalytics (formerly SimplyMap) is a web-based mapping application that enables users to quickly create and share professional-quality thematic maps and reports using thousands of demographic, business, marketing, and health data variables. Includes the PRIZM5 data Module.

A user account is not required to access SimplyAnalytics. To access this resource without creating an account, use the sign in as a guest link. Your work will not be saved.

Access is limited to 5 concurrent users. Please LOGOUT or close your browser window when you are finished using this resource.

Also known as: Simply Analytics. PRISM5
link: https://app.simplyanalytics.com

title: Slavery, abolition & social justice
description: Access to Slavery, Abolition and Social Justice, 1490-2007 is provided through a Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN) agreement. Provides documents and collections on slavery and abolition studies from 1490 to 2007. Includes manuscripts, pamphlets, books, maps and images as well as scholarly essays and links to online sources covering varieties of slavery, social justice, and the continued existence of slavery. This is an Adam Matthew Digital collection. Coverage: 1490-2007
link: http://www.slavery.amdigital.co.uk/

title: SME Benchmarking Tool
description: Small Business Profiles is a free service which provides statistical information on the performance of small businesses in Canada. Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes are used throughout Small Business Profiles.&quot; The CD-ROM is cumulative for 1993, 1995 and 1997. It provides more options and flexibility than the Web version, when searching for data in each year. There are three primary types of profiles, depending on whether you specified Unincorporated, Incorporated, or All Businesses in the Profiles' start screen. All three show general information on the businesses in the sample group, average gross operating revenue, average value of various expense items, and information on paid employees. In addition the Unincorporated Businesses report shows two financial ratios and gross margin  the All Businesses report shows the same two ratios and a table comparing profitable to non-profitable businesses  and the Incorporated Businesses report shows 12 financial ratios, and a Balance Sheet for the sample group. This database is also available on CD-ROM in Webster Government Publications. Coverage: 1993, 1995, 1997 Documents indexed: Financial Statements, Statistics
link: https://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/pp-pp.nsf/eng/home

title: Smithsonian collections online (Gale Primary Sources)
description: Contains digitized primary sources from the holdings of the museums, libraries, and archives of the Smithsonian. Concordia has access to these collections:

World's Fairs and Expositions: Visions of Tomorrow Digital Archive
Trade Literature and the Merchandizing of Industry Digital Archive

Also known as: Gale Primary Sources
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/SMIT?u=concordi_main

title: Social services abstracts
description: This database provides bibliographic coverage of current research focused on social work, human services, and related areas, including social welfare, social policy, and community development. It covers abstracts and indexes to over 1,500 serials publications and includes abstracts of journal articles and dissertations, and citations to book reviews. Coverage: 1980 onward Update Frequency: Monthly Documents indexed: Journal Articles, Theses & Dissertations
link: https://search.proquest.com/socialservices/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Socialism on Film
description: This collection of films from the communist world reveals war, history, current affairs, culture and society as seen through the socialist lens. It spans most of the twentieth century and covers countries such as the USSR, Vietnam, China, Korea, much of Eastern Europe, the GDR, Britain and Cuba.
link: https://www.socialismonfilm.amdigital.co.uk/

title: SocINDEX
description: This sociology research database features 2,035,000 records with subject headings from a 19,600+ term sociological thesaurus designed by subject experts and expert lexicographers. This product also contains informative abstracts for more than 1,190 &quot;core&quot; coverage journals dating as far back as 1895. In addition, this file provides data mined from more than 500 &quot;priority&quot; coverage journals as well as from over 2,900 &quot;selective&quot; coverage journals.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=snh

title: Sociological abstracts
description: Indexes the international literature in sociology and related disciplines in the social and behavioral sciences. Provides abstracts of journal articles and citations to book reviews from more than 1,800 serial publications, as well as abstracts of books, book chapters, dissertations, and conference papers. Documents indexed: Journal Articles, Theses & Dissertations
link: https://search.proquest.com/socabs/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Spectrum
description: This is Concordia's Institutional Repository of published and peer-reviewed research produced by Concordia researchers, as well as Concordia's digitized theses and dissertations. Types of research deposited in the repository include journal articles, conference papers, presentations and other scholarly creations, including images and media files. Documents indexed: Theses & Dissertations
link: https://spectrum.library.concordia.ca

title: SPIE Digital Library (Full Collection)
description: The full SPIE Digital Library is a collection of optics and photonics research with over 460,000 papers from conference proceedings, peer-reviewed journals, and eBooks. Content covers a broad range of applied optics and photonics science and engineering papers.
link: https://www.spiedigitallibrary.org

title: SPIE Digital Library (Journals)
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals provided by the Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers.
link: https://www.spiedigitallibrary.org/journals

title: SPIRES HEP
description: Search more than 500,000 high-energy physics related articles, including journal papers, preprints, e-prints, technical reports, conference papers and theses, comprehensively indexed by the SLAC (Stanford Linear Accelerator Center) and DESY (German Electron Synchrotron) libraries since 1974.  The SPIRES HEP database provides a rich information structure for papers in high energy physics. Coverage: 1974 - present Help Guide: http://www.slac.stanford.edu/spires/hep/help/ Documents indexed: Conference Proceedings, Journal Articles, Technical Reports, Theses & Dissertations
link: https://inspirehep.net/

title: SPORTDiscus with Full Text
description: SPORTDiscus with Full Text is the most comprehensive index to articles, reports, book chapters, etc. in the area of sports and sports medicine. SPORTDiscus with Full Text provides access to full text for more than 350 journals dating back to 1985. Coverage: indexing: 1887 to the present,  some full-text: 1985 to the present (varies by title); Documents indexed: Books, Journal Articles
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=s3h

title: Springer eBooks Collection
description: Collection of ebooks in the fields of Architecture & Design, Astronomy, Biomedical Sciences, Business & Management, Chemistry, Computer Science, Earth Sciences & Geography, Economics, Education & Language, Energy, Engineering, Finance, Food Sciences & Nutrition, Law, Life Sciences, Materials, Mathematics, Medicine, Philosophy, Physics, Psychology, Public Health, Social Sciences, and Statistics. 
Following a merger, the Springer ebook collections now include all Palgrave Macmillan ebook titles.
link: https://link.springer.com/search?facet-content-type=Book&showAll=false

title: SpringerLINK-CRKN-Archives (through 1996)
description: This is a collection of over 450 full-text e-journals covering disciplines in Science, Technology, Health, Engineering, Environment, Economics and Law.
link: https://link.springer.com/search?facet-content-type=Journal&showAll=false

title: SpringerLINK-CRKN-Contemporary
description: Over 2400 full text Springer-Verlag journals, covering disciplines in Science, Technology, Health, Engineering, Environment, Economics and Law. **Please note that our subscription does NOT include the Springer Book Series, but only the collection of journals. To find out if Concordia has a subscription to a particular book series, please check the library catalogue. Documents indexed: Journal Articles Acknowledgements: Access to SpringerLink is provided thanks to the Canadian Site Licensing Project
link: https://link.springer.com/search?facet-content-type=Journal&showAll=false

title: Standard & Poors NetAdvantage
description: Provides access to company data, in-depth industry surveys and mutual fund information. In addition, NetAdvantage also includes stock and bond reports, corporation records and various other S&P publications, such as The Outlook. Documents indexed: Financial Statements, Reports

Also known as: Capital IQ
link: https://na.capitaliq.com/ip/concordia

title: State Papers Online (SPO)
description: Includes Part I: 1509 -1603 (Tudor Domestic), Part II: 1509-1603 (Tudor Foreign), Part III: 1603-1714 (Stuart Domestic), Part IV: 1603-1714 (Stuart Foreign), and Eighteenth Century (Part I): The Hanovers, 1714-1782: State Papers Domestic, Military and Naval and Registers of the Privy Council. State Papers Online gathers together British State Papers and links these rare historical manuscripts to their fully text-searchable Calendars.
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/SPOL?u=concordi_main

title: Strategis
description: Strategis is Canada's largest business website produced by Industry Canada. Links are provided to Company Directories, Trade and Investment statistics, Business information by sector, Economic analysis, Business support and financing, Licences and legislation, Employment and learning, Consumer Information, and guides to starting a business. Documents indexed: Reports, Statistics
link: https://strategis.ic.gc.ca/

title: Sustainalytics
description: Note: Access available at Library workstations, during Reference Desk service hours. Password required. Please ask staff at the Vanier or Webster Reference Desk to sign you in to this resource.  

Sustainalytics focuses on environmental, social and governance research and analysis. The database evaluates and analyzes companies on their ESG performance using targeted sector-specific ESG indicators.  Sustainalytics also highlights and assesses company involvement in controversies and incidents. 

NOTE: as of June 2016, certain limitations have been put in place for sustainalytics' Global Access portal in regards to the redistribution of SEDOL, Valor, WKN, CUSIP and ISIN identifiers. Specifically, the following will apply in the Tools section (i.e. the reports created under Report Generation Tool): SEDOLs, Valor, and WKN identifiers will no longer be available as data fields for reports. CUSIPs and North American ISINs will only be available as data fields up to a maximum of 500, extendable up to 5000 after confirmation of appropriate licensing with Cusip Global Services.This change means that in the reports users have created under the Report Generation Tool, SEDOL, Valor and WKN identifiers will be removed as data fields. These will also no longer be available to add as a data field or column in the report. For ISIN identifiers, users will be unable to download reports with over 500 North American ISIN identifiers, i.e. with over 500 North American companies in the report universe. Users might receive an error message while doing so. However, if users remove the ISIN field from the report created on Global Access, they should be able to download data in bulk as usual.
link: https://globalaccess.sustainalytics.com/#/iplogin

title: Synthesis digital library of engineering and computer science
description: Synthesis Digital Library of Engineering and Computer Science is a collection of e-books that synthesize research and development in specific technologies. These survey texts cover topics in electrical engineering, biomedical engineering, computer science, artificial intelligence, and other areas of engineering.

Acces is also possible for a short time via the old platform.
link: https://link.springer.com/search?package=85007&facet-content-type=%22Book%22

title: Tax Suite Premium  Student Edition (CICA)
description: Collection of Canadian tax research materials with commentary from Ernst & Young, providing full coverage of federal income tax, GST/HST & excise, and provincial taxes. Updated monthly. Contents: Federal Income Tax Collection Platinum, including the Income Tax Act  Cases from 1917  Rulings Directorate Letters with analysis and commentary from Ernst & Young  Commodity Tax news  Excise Automated Reference Library (GST/HST & Excise)  Federal Income Tax News  GST/HST & Excise Tax News  Provincial Taxes Electronic Reference Library  TaxMatters@EY.
link: https://edu.knotia.ca

title: Taylor & Francis ebooks (CRKN DCI Project)
description: Taylor and Francis e-books is a collection of more than 12,000 humanities and social sciences titles from 1933 to the present.
link: https://www.taylorfrancis.com/

title: Taylor & Francis reference works
description: Collection of online encyclopedias and other reference works
link: https://www.taylorfrancis.com/

title: Techstreet Enterprise
description: Techstreet Enterprise offers access to ASHRAE standards, published by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), as well as ISO Standards, published by the International Organization for Standardization.

Concordia currently has access to:


ASHRAE 90.1-2022 (I-P) Standard 90.1-2022 (I-P Edition) -- Energy Standard for Sites and Buildings Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings (ANSI Approved; IES Co-sponsored)

Updated! ASHRAE 55-2023 Standard 55-2023 -- Thermal Environmental Conditions for Human Occupancy (ANSI Approved)

ASHRAE 62.1-2022 Standard 62.1-2022 -- Ventilation and Acceptable Indoor Air Quality (ANSI Approved)

ISO 14040:2006 Environmental management - Life cycle assessment - Principles and framework

ISO 14044:2006 Environmental management - Life cycle assessment - Requirements and guidelines

New!  ISO 14051:2011 Environmental management - Material flow cost accounting - General framework

ASHRAE standards establish consensus for test methods and performance criteria. These include voluntary consensus standards for Method of Measurement or Test, Standard Design and Standard Practice. Consensus standards define minimum values or acceptable performance. ASHRAE is accredited by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and follows ANSI's requirements for due process and standards development.
link: https://subscriptions.techstreet.com/catalogs/17/list?on_subscription=yes

title: Telecommunications Database
description: ProQuest Telecommunications Database provides access to selected trade publications, magazines and scholarly journals related to the telecommunications industry. A collection of journal articles, magazines and newsletters.
link: https://search.proquest.com/telecomms?accountid=10246

title: TERMIUM plus
description: Terminology database which provides definitions, contexts, examples of usage, observations and translation for over three million English and French terms as well as for 700 000 Spanish terms. Covers many fields of knowledge with special emphasis on informatics, business, administration, science and technology. The online version also includes the Translation Bureau's three writing assistance tools: Le Guide du Rédacteur, The Canadian Style and the Lexique Analogique. Update Frequency: Monthly
link: https://www.btb.termiumplus.gc.ca/

title: Territoires
description: Territoires is a web portal from the Ministère des Affaires municipales et Occupation du territoire (MAMOT) of the Government of Québec. It includes two components: 1) The &quot;Bibliothèque virtuelle&quot; which gives access to official documents such as development plans and government notices  2) The &quot;Navigateur géographique&quot; which presents cartographic information on land use. Note that the maps can be exported in PDF format, but the underlying geospatial data cannot be extracted. Also known as Projet SIGAT.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://territoires.affmunqc.net

title: The Collapse of the Ottoman Empire and the Partition of the Middle East, 1879-1919
description: This collection, from the British Online Archives, is drawn from the personal papers of Mark Sykes (1879-1919), a politician and diplomatic advisor known for his role in the partition of the Middle East around the period of the First World War. In addition to the partition, the papers focus on Sykes’ experience in military intelligence and diplomacy in the Middle East, both before and during the First World War. This includes touching on historic events like the Armenian genocide as well as international debates around Zionism and the creation of a Jewish homeland. Sykes' notebooks also offer insight into the experience of an aristocratic traveler in the Middle East during the early 20th century.

The collection includes 4 volumes:

Foreign affairs and travel, 1888-1919
Papers regarding the Sykes-Picot Agreement, the Zionist movement, and British policy in Islamic countries, 1914-1918
Papers of Sir Mark Sykes formerly on display at Sledmere House, 1915-1917
Miscellaneous other papers
link: https://microform.digital/boa/collections/13/the-collapse-of-the-ottoman-empire-and-the-partition-of-the-middle-east-1879-1919

title: Theatre in video: volume 1 & volume 2
description: Created by Alexander Street Press, Theatre in Video covers a wide range of 20th century theatre history, featuring original stage productions, captured and recorded while performed for a live theatre audience. Theatre in Video contains more than 350 full-length plays and documentaries, including the complete series of BBC Shakespeare productions.

Theatre in Video: Volume I contains hundreds of the worlds most important plays, documentaries, interviews, and instructional materials in more than 550 hours of streaming video. From celebrated productions of Shakespeare to rare, in-depth footage of the work of Samuel Beckett, the collection covers a wide range of 20th century theatre history. Interviews with directors, designers, writers, and actors, along with excerpts of live performances, deliver an authentic, behind-the-scenes look at hundreds of productions.

Theatre in Video: Volume II brings together 250 additional hours of classic and contemporary plays and documentaries. With a greater focus on new and international productions,  voume II features highly valued and often difficult-to-find performances. Users can view the works of widely studied playwrights and theatre artists from around the globe, including many new performances from Shakespeare's Globe Theatre collection (Opus Arte), Theatre Arts Films, the BBC, and TMW Media Group

 NOTE: The videos are difficult to view when the Internet activity is high (peak activity is between noon and 6 pm) as bandwidth is restricted on campus. Coverage: 1930's onward
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/ativ

title: Thesaurus Linguae Graecae
description: You must login to use the Thesaurus. The first time you use this resource, you will be required to create an account. The TLG Project is a digital collection of literary texts written in Greek, dating from the Homeric era to the fall of Byzantium in AD 1453.
link: https://stephanus.tlg.uci.edu/index.php

title: Theses Canada
description: Theses Canada provides access to the National Library of Canada's records of PhD and Masters' theses from Canadian universities.  A link to a full-text PDF version is available for theses published from 1998 to 2002. Coverage: 1965 onwards Documents indexed: Theses & Dissertations
link: https://www.bac-lac.gc.ca/eng/services/theses/Pages/theses-canada.aspx

title: Thomas register of American manufacturers
description: The Thomas Register Of American Manufacturers is a directory featuring 155,000 companies, 60,000 product & service classification headings and 124,000 brand names. Includes American and some Canadian companies Coverage: latest edition
link: https://www.thomasnet.com/

title: Times Digital Archive 1785 Onwards (Gale Primary Sources)
description: A full-image online archive of every page published by The Times [London] from 1785-2006. The text within the images is fully searchable at the article level. Users can easily search news articles, obituaries, advertising and classifieds, virtually everything that appeared in the newspaper. Results are displayed at the article level and users may view the article, or the full page upon which it appeared. Acknowledgements: Access to the Times Digital Archive from 1785-1985  is provided thanks to the Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN).
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/TTDA?u=concordi_main

title: TOXLINE in PubMed
description: TOXLINE is the National Library of Medicine's extensive collection of online bibliographic information covering the biochemical, pharmacological, physiological, and toxicological effects of drugs and other chemicals. It contains more than 3 million bibliographic citations, almost all with abstracts and/or indexing terms. Coverage: 1972 onward; Update Frequency: Updated monthly; Documents indexed: Journal Articles
link: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=tox%20%5Bsubset%5D%20AND%20

title: TOXNET
description: TOXNET &quot;The Toxicology Data Network&quot; from the U.S. National Library of Medicine, comprises databases on toxicology, hazardous chemicals, environmental health, and toxic releases.
link: https://www.nlm.nih.gov/toxnet/index.html

title: Trade data online
description: Trade Data Online provides free international statistics obtained from Statistics Canada and from the U.S. Census Bureau. The information is repackaged for online use and provides the latest 10 (ten) full years of data.   Trade Data Online (TDO) is comprised of two modules: Trade by Product (Canadian and U.S. Data) and Trade by Industry (Canadian data only). Coverage: 10 latest years Documents indexed: Statistics
link: https://strategis.ic.gc.ca/sc_mrkti/tdst/engdoc/tr_homep.html

title: Translation Studies Bibliography
description: This bibliography contains over 32,000 abstracts for publications in translation studies. Publication types indexed include journal articles, articles in edited collections, monographs, reviews, dissertations, etc. Some articles in semiotic studies, communication studies, linguistics, sociology, and psychology may also be indexed if relevant to translation studies.
link: https://www.benjamins.com/online/tsb/

title: TRID Database
description: TRID is an integrated database that combines the records from U.S.Transportation Research Board's Transportation Research Information Services (TRIS) Database and the OECD's Joint Transport Research Centre's International Transport Research Documentation (ITRD) Database. TRID provides access to over 940,000 records of transportation research worldwide Coverage: 1960s onward (some coverage of earlier years) Documents indexed: Books, Journal Articles, Technical Reports
link: https://trid.trb.org/

title: Twentieth century North American drama
description: Twentieth Century North American Drama contains more than 1500 plays by more than 200 playwrights, together with information on related productions, theaters, production companies, and more. This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press drama collections, which are cross-searchable in North American Theatre Online. Documents indexed: Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc)
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/nadr

title: Ullmann's encyclopedia of industrial chemistry
description: Fully international in scope and coverage, the Encyclopedia contains nearly 1,000 major articles, written by some 3,000 authors who are experts in their fields and affiliated to leading chemical companies or research institutes.    With more than 16 million words, nearly 15,000 tables, 25,000 figures, and innumerable literature sources and cross-references, subject areas include: inorganic and organic chemicals, advanced materials, pharmaceuticals, polymers and plastics, metals and alloys, biotechnology and biotechnological products, food chemistry, process engineering and unit operations, analytical methods, environmental protection, etc. Coverage: 2006 content only; Update Frequency: regularly (articles are added on a monthly basis).
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/book/10.1002/14356007

title: UNdata
description: UNdata combines 15 databases from various UN agencies as well as 5 Indicator databases, with a total of over 55 million records. It presents official statistics produced by countries and compiled by United Nations data system, as well as estimates and projections. Major topics include education, employment, energy, environment, food and agriculture, health, industry, information and communication, population, refugees, trade and tourism. Data are accessible by keyword search. The &quot;More&quot; link allows you to do an advanced search, browse the list of databases and tables via &quot;Explorer&quot;, or browse by &quot;Country Profile&quot; for summary data, country-related tables and a map of the country. A Glossary supplies definitions of terms used in the data series. The Wiki supplies information on Data and Glossary sources. The datasets are presented in a common platform and interface, with data preview and download (different formats), and some table customization with the use of filters, etc. Also known as United Nations common database (UNCDB).
link: https://data.un.org/

title: United Nations treaty collection (UNTC)
description: The United Nations Treaty Collection includes the following categories of treaty-related data:  Status of Multilateral Treaties Deposited with the Secretary-GeneralDepositary Notifications (CNs) by the Secretary-GeneralCertified True Copies (CTCs) of Multilateral Treaties Deposited with the Secretary-GeneralThe United Nations Treaty Series, 1946 onward The League of Nations Treaty Series, 1920 to 1944Texts of Recently Deposited Multilateral Treaties Photographs of Treaty Signature Ceremonies Titles of the Multilateral Treaties Deposited with the Secretary-General in the UN official languagesSummary of Practice of the Secretary-General as Depositary of Multilateral Treaties Treaty HandbookHandbook of Final ClausesMonthly Statements of Treaties and International Agreements United Nations Treaty Series Cumulative IndexNotes verbales from The Legal Counsel relating to the depositary practice and the registration of treaties pursuant to Article 102 of the Charter. . Also known as Collection des trait&eacute;s des Nations unies
link: https://treaties.un.org/

title: University of California press journals
description: This is a collection of full-text e-journals.
link: https://www.ucpress.edu/journals.php

title: University of Chicago Press Journals (Current access)
description: This is a collection of full-text multidisciplinary ejournals spanning the humanities, business, economics, law, field sciences, and health sciences. This collection also includes important journals in key sciences fields of astronomy, biological sciences, botany & plant sciences, geology, and zoology.
link: https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/action/showPublications?&alphabetRange=

title: University of Toronto Press
description: This is a collection of full-text -journals
link: https://www.utpjournals.press

title: University Press Scholarship Online
description: Collection of scholarly ebooks published by University Press Scholarship Online (UPSO) and partner presses such as: Oxford Scholarship Online (OUP), MIT Press Scholarship Online, Stanford Scholarship Online, Yale Scholarship Online, Chicago Scholarship Online and many more.
link: https://www.universitypressscholarship.com/

title: UPCC Books on Project MUSE
description: For recently published ebook titles, you might encounter a warning about the website's security certificate when trying to access this resource. Please disregard the warning and continue to the website.

A collection of peer-reviewed books in the humanities and social sciences from university presses and scholarly publishers (the University Press Content Consortium), accessible via Project MUSE's integrated ebook/journal platform.
link: https://muse.jhu.edu/browse/titles/all?browse_view_type=list&limit_content_type=book#limit_access=valid

title: US Newsstream
description: This ProQuest Central US Newstream full-text database covers U.S. national and regional news sources.  Coverage varies by title.  Excludes illustrations, graphs, classified ads, advertisements, and stock market reports.
link: https://search.proquest.com/usnews/advanced?accountid=10246

title: US Patent and Trademark Office Web Patent Database
description: The USPTO site provides full text access to patents from 1976-current, and the full-page images since 1790. You can also search on patent applications since March 15, 2001. Coverage: 1790-present; Update Frequency: daily
link: https://www.uspto.gov/patft/index.html

title: USITO
description: Usito is an online dictionary created in Québec. It distinguishes itself from other dictionaries by its inclusion of words that refer to Québec, Canadian and North-American realities, and it takes into account the geographic variations of French. The dictionary contains over 60,000 words, 10,000 Québec-specific uses, conjugation tables and quotes. Also known as Dictionnaire USITO de la langue française
link: https://usito.usherbrooke.ca

title: Value Line Institutional Research Center Online
description: The Value Line Investment Survey is a comprehensive source of information and advice on approximately 1,700 stocks, more than 90 industries, the stock market, and the economy. For each stock it offers year- and three- to five year probable relative price performance, projections of key financial measures, and concise, objective commentary on current operations and future prospects. The Survey contains three main sections: 1) The Ratings & Reports section contains company reports, Value Line's Timeliness, Safety, and Technical ranks, financial and stock price forecasts for the coming 3 to 5 years, an analyst's written commentary, and much more.2) The Summary & Index contains an index of all stocks in the publication as well as many up-to-date statistics. 3) The Selection & Opinion section contains Value Line's latest economic and stock market forecasts, one-page write-ups of interesting and attractive stocks, model portfolios, and financial and stock market statistics.
link: https://research.valueline.com/secure/dashboard

title: Vanderbilt television news archive
description: Indexes and abstracts US Television news broadcasts from ABC, CBS (1968 onwards) and FoxNews (2004 onwards). Includes streaming video for NBC from 1968 onwards and CNN broadcasts from 1995 onwards.
link: https://tvnews.vanderbilt.edu

title: Vente et Gestion (French Business Source)
description: EBSCO's Vente et Gestion provides full text coverage for French language business journals serving both the academic and the professional researcher. This collection also includes publications covering topics such as accounting & tax, administration, industry & manufacturing, marketing, logistics, technology and others.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=frh

title: Vidal Sassoon International Center for the Study of Antisemitism
description: Online database part of The Felix Posen Bibliographic Project on Antisemitism. The bibliography includes works published throughout the world about antisemitism (books, dissertations, master's theses, and articles from periodicals and collections) but does not include newspaper articles, reviews, and works of fiction, nor does it cover antisemitic publications. The project has two parts: The ongoing annotated bibliography (from 1984 to the present), and the retrospective bibliography, which lists books and articles, published prior to 1984 (presently includes works published from 1965-1983). The long-term goal is to compile a comprehensive listing of all works written about antisemitism throughout history For the purpose of this bibliography, antisemitism is defined as antagonism toward Jews and Judaism as expressed in writings (e.g., the New Testament, polemical literature, works of fiction), in the visual arts (e.g., art, caricatures, films), and in actions (e.g., massacres and pogroms, discriminatory legislation, the Holocaust). Since 1988, the bibliography includes all works dealing with the Holocaust period (1933-1945) -- i.e., on antisemitic ideology, policy, and attitudes, as well as on the Jewish experience (memoirs, memorial books, etc.) -- in light of the fact that there is no other comprehensive current bibliography on this subject. The references are divided into three sections: Bibliographies and Reference Works  Antisemitism throughout the Ages  and Antisemitism in Literature and in the Arts The listings are compiled mainly from the holdings of the Jewish National and University Library in Jerusalem. The works listed come from a diverse range of disciplines: history, psychology, sociology, anthropology, literature, and art. 
Also of interest: Jewish Question in German-Speaking Countries (1848-1914) 
Documents indexed: Books, Journal Articles, Theses & Dissertations. Previously known as the Annotated bibliography on anti-semitism (BAS).
link: http://aleph500.huji.ac.il/F/?func=file&file_name=find-b&local_base=hdbas&con_lng=eng

title: Vithèque
description: One of the most important collections of independent video in Canada. To date, Vithèque offers close to 2,000 titles by more than 800 artists, activists, and engaged citizens, all of which are distributed by Vidéographe. More than simply an accessible streaming platform, Vithèque is a space dedicated to research and education in the media arts. The site offers, as well, free video programmes that are renewed every three months, critical and historical texts on the media arts, and educational material.

Concordia has access to all films on the Vithèque platform. Press &quot;watch&quot; to view a film. Ignore the box that says $8.00; you will not be prompted to pay.
link: https://vitheque.com/en

title: Vividata's Dapresy Cross Tab Report
description: NOTE: Please LOGOUT  -- AND close your browser window -- when you are finished using this resource.
Vividata (formerly known as &quot;PMB Print Measurement Bureau&quot;) provides survey data on Canadian print readership, non-print media exposure, product usage and lifestyles. Vividata is a non-profit organization, representing the interests of Canadian publishers, advertising agencies, advertisers and other companies. Coverage includes media activity, personal care, travel, apparel, home electronics, leisure, snacks, children's products, etc. Also known as Target Snapshot, Dapresy, or Amalco
Please see this instructional video on how to use Dapresy.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/apps/vividata/index.html

title: Vogue Archive
description: ProQuest Vogue Archive contains the entire run of Vogue magazine (US edition) from 1892 to the present day, reproduced in high-resolution color page images. Work from the greatest designers, photographers, stylists and illustrators of the 20th and 21st centuries.
link: https://search.proquest.com/vogue/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Ward's business directory of U.S. private and public companies, 51st ed., 2008
description: Wards Business Directory of U.S. Private and Public Companies is a premiere business resource profiling more than 112,000 U.S. companies -- 90 percent of which are private. Whether it be for contacting a company or calculating its marketshare, Wards Business Directory is an invaluable tool for librarians, executives, students, analysts, marketers, and all other professionals who require current company and industry profiles. Coverage: 2003 onward Access is  via Gale Directory Library
link: https://go.gale.com/ps/i.do?p=GDL&sw=w&u=concordi_main&v=2.1&pg=BasicSearch&it=static&sid=bookmark-GDL

title: Web of Science
description: Citation databases allow identification of the number of times a particular work or author is cited in the literature. The Web of Science Core Collection includes these citation databases: 

Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI), a multidisciplinary database covering the journal literature of the sciences, including computer science and engineering
Social Sciences Citation Index (SSCI), a multidisciplinary database, with searchable author abstracts, covering the journal literature of the social sciences 
Arts & Humanities Citation Index (AHCI), a multidisciplinary database covering the journal literature of the arts and humanities. 
Conference Proceedings Citation Index – Science (CPCI-S) 1990-present
Conference Proceedings Citation Index – Social Science & Humanities (CPCI-SSH) 1990-present
Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI) 2017-present
Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI) 2017-present

These databases are also included in Web of Science:

BIOSIS Citation Index
BIOSIS Previews
KCI-Korean Journal Database
MEDLINE®
SciELO Citation Index

Acknowledgements: Access to this database is provided thanks to the Canadian Site Licensing Project. Formerly known as Web of Knowledge
link: https://apps.webofknowledge.com

title: WebCSD
description: To access, please visit the Ask Us Desk at Webtser or Vanier Library, during desk service hours.

WebCSD is the web service of the Cambridge Structural Database (CSD), a repository for small-molecule organic and metal-organic crystal structures for scientists. WebCSD allows users to search for a specific structure and also find the context of the structure in relation to its originality and/or comparison to other known molecules. Original deposited data can be obtained and exported for further analysis. 

This is a joint subscription between the Library and the the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry.
link: 

title: Wiley Online Books
description: Concordia only subscribes to some of the titles in the database.Collection of online e-books in  various disciplines.
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/

title: Wiley Online Reference Works
description: A collection of online encyclopedias and other reference works. Concordia only subscribes to some of the titles on this platform.
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com

title: Wiley-Blackwell Backfiles (CRKN)
description: Blackwell  Publishing is digitizing 500 of its scholarly journals from Volume 1, Issue 1 to December 1996 and plans to complete this program by the end of 2008. The CRKN offer is for the full collection of digitized backfiles, covering all subject areas (Humanities, Social Science, Law, Medicine and Science.) All journal which have pre-1997 backfiles are intended to be included with the exception of those journals already included in JSTOR (more than 60 titles) and the small number of titles digitized at the expense of a society or a third party and already made freely available. Coverage: Varies with collection title Documents indexed: Journal Articles. Also known as Blackwell-Synergy Backfiles.
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com

title: Wiley-Blackwell Cochrane Library
description: NOTE: Please LOGOUT or close your browser window when you are finished using this resource. 
A collection of evidence-based medicine databases, including The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews which examine evidence for and against the effectiveness and appropriateness of treatments (medications, surgery, education, etc) in specific circumstances.
link: https://www.cochranelibrary.com/

title: Wiley-Blackwell Encyclopedia of Literature
description: Comprises The Encyclopedia of Literary and Cultural Theory, The Encyclopedia of the Novel, The Encyclopedia of Twentieth-Century Fiction, The Encyclopedia of Romantic Literature, The Encyclopedia of Victorian Literature and The Encyclopedia of English Renaissance Literature.
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/doSearch?AllField=literature&PubType=refWork&startPage=&target=titleSearch&content=journalTitle

title: Wiley-Blackwell Full Collection - CRKN
description: The Wiley Online Library contains full-text from 1500+ journals, the combined output of all Wiley-Blackwell peer-reviewed primary research and survey journals, more than half of which are published in partnership with international scholarly and professional associations. Covers the full spectrum of science, medicine, technology, business, social sciences, and the humanities.
link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com

title: Wilson Art Suite
description: Wilson Art Suite includes the 3 following databases: Art Full Text, Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals and Art Index Retrospective.
link: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=aft,air,bvh

title: Women and social movements in the United States 1600-2000
description: This project includes tens of thousands of primary documents, arranged in document projects with introductory essays that interpret the documents, a definitive bibliography, related web links, a Dictionary of Social Movements, and an enormous collection of images. The collection will continue to grow each year. Women and Social Movements in the United States brings together books, images, documents, scholarly essays, commentaries, and bibliographies, documenting the multiplicity of women's activism in public life. -- NOTE: This collection is part of the Alexander Street Press Core Collections. Coverage: 1600-2000 NOTE: If you are experiencing problems accessing the content from off-campus, please delete your browser's cookies and temporary internet files. Documents indexed: Books, Journal Articles, Pamphlets
link: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/wass

title: Women, War and Society: 1914-1918 (Gale Primary Sources)
description: This is a collection of primary sources documenting women's roles in World War I Britain. Includes interpretative essays, charity and international relief reports, pamphlets, photographs, press cuttings, magazines, posters, correspondence, minutes, records, diaries, memoranda, statistics, circulars, regulations,  and invitations. From the The Imperial War Museum, London.

Also known as: Gale Primary Sources
link: https://link.gale.com/apps/collection/6ACP/GDSC?u=concordi_main&sid=bookmark-GDSC

title: World Bank Data Catalog
description: World Bank Data Catalog is a product of the World Bank and comprises several databases including the following: World Development Indicators;  Global Development Finance;  Education Statistics; Gender Statistics;  Health Nutrition and Population Statistics;  Poverty and Equality Database. Also known as Banque mondiale (Renouf).
link: https://databank.worldbank.org/data/Home.aspx

title: World development indicators
description: World Development Indicators (WDI) is the primary World Bank database for development data from officially-recognized international sources. Global Development Finance (GDF) provides external debt and financial flows statistics for countries that report public and publicly-guaranteed debt under the World Bank's Debtor Reporting System (DRS). Documents indexed: Statistics
link: https://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators

title: World Shakespeare bibliography online
description: WSB online provides annotated entries for books, articles, book reviews, dissertations, theatrical productions, reviews of productions, audiovisual materials, electronic media, and other scholarly and popular materials related to Shakespeare. Includes listings of stage, musical, dance, and video adaptations of Shakespeare's works (in listing personnel, only the following are recorded: those with speaking roles, the author and/or translator of the adaptation, choreographer, composer, dramaturg, director, assistant director, and individuals responsible for sets, costumes, lighting, and music). Coverage: 1962-onward; Update Frequency: Updated regularly.  Each year, coverage will move forward one year and backwards at least three years. Documents indexed: Audiovisual Media, Book Reviews, Books, Essays, Film Reviews, Filmographies, Journal Articles, Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc), Newspaper articles, Theses & Dissertations
link: https://www.worldshakesbib.org/advanced-search

title: WorldCat
description: WorldCat is a worldwide union catalogue created and maintained collectively by more than 10,000 member institutions, including Concordia Libraries. Its resources span thousands of years and include lists of materials from books to recordings to archives. Documents indexed: Audiovisual Media, Books, Catalogues, Literary Works (poems, short stories, novels, plays, etc)
link: https://firstsearch.oclc.org/FSIP

title: zbMATH
description: The zbMATH database contains about 4 million bibliographic entries with reviews or abstracts currently drawn from about 3,000 journals and book series, and 180,000 books. The coverage starts in the 18th century and is complete from 1868 to the present
link: https://zbmath.org/

title: Stolen: Surviving St. Michael's
description: In Stolen: Surviving St. Michael's, Connie Walker unearths how her family's story fits into one of Canada's darkest chapters: the residential school system.
link: https://open.spotify.com/show/7D4inq4DY144KIZN99Od6t

title: Residential Schools Podcast Series
description: Residential Schools is a three-part podcast series created by Historica Canada and hosted by Shaneen Robinson-Desjarlais. It aims to commemorate the history and legacy of residential schools, and honour the stories of First Nations, Métis, and Inuit Survivors, their families, and communities
link: https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/residential-schools-podcast-series

title: Kuper Island: CBC Podcast
description: An 8-part series that tells the stories of four students: three who survived and one who didn’t. They attended one of Canada’s most notorious residential schools – where unsolved deaths, abuse, and lies haunt the community and the survivors to this day.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/listen/cbc-podcasts/1062-kuper-island

title: Mapping the missing: Former residential school sites in Canada and the search for unmarked graves
description: A map of former residential schools in Canada
link: https://globalnews.ca/news/8074453/indigenous-residential-schools-canada-graves-map/

title: Missing Children of Indian Residential Schools: On discovery of unmarked graves at former Indian residential school sites in Canada
description: Uses data collected from Indian Residential School Settlement Agreement, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission report, and geographic information system to provide a visual representation of the 139 Indian residential school locations across Canada as well as document the search for missing children from those schools.
link: https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/cfe29bee35c54a70b9621349f19a3db2

title: Concordia Library Guide: The Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada
description: Guide to the reports of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada, and additional educational resources on Residential Schools.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/first-peoples-studies/truth-and-reconciliation-commission-of-canada--trc-.html

title: Concordia Library First Peoples' Studies' Guide - Residential Schools
description: Wide variety of governmental and organizational web sites and reports.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/first-peoples-studies/web-resources.html#residential

title: The First Peoples' Postsecondary Storytelling Exchange: What We Learned
description: An Initiative to improve Indigenous students' Postsecondary experiences by sharing stories and perspectives. Includes data and findings based on the question: <i>"What are your stories about postsecondary education?"</i>
link: https://fppse.net/project/what-we-learned/

title: How Indigenous scholarship winners are busting myths and stereotypes
description: Macleans article interviewing three Indigenous scholarship recipients.
link: https://www.macleans.ca/education/university/how-indigenous-scholarship-winners-are-busting-myths-and-stereotypes/

title: The Birth of a Teacher
description: A blogpost discussing a Cree woman's journey through university to becoming a teacher, and the challenges that she faced throughout.
link: https://teaandbannock.com/2020/06/25/the-birth-of-a-teacher/

title: What my children learn about themselves in school
description: A blogpost discussing the failures of the Canadian and Quebec education system to properly educate students about Indigenous cultures and histories.
link: https://apihtawikosisan.com/2011/04/what-my-children-learn-about-themselves-in-school/

title: Intercollegiate Decolonization Network: Indigenous Voices
description: Articles, blogposts, interviews and more.
link: https://idn.netboard.me/intercollegiatedecol/?tab=171932

title: "Myths that Impact Indigenous Student Experience" from Pulling Together: A Guide for Front-Line Staff, Student Services, and Advisors
description: An open-resource book chapter addressing and demystifying misconceptions about Indigenous Students.
link: https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationfrontlineworkers/chapter/myths-that-impact-indigenous-student-experience/

title: Colonized Classrooms : Racism, Trauma and Resistance in Post-Secondary Education
description: Indigenous students confront narratives of colonial violence in the postsecondary classroom while at the same time living and experiencing colonial violence on a daily basis. Using interviews with students, teachers and Elders, Cote-Meek deftly illustrates how colonization and its violence are, rather than a distant experience, being negotiated every day in universities across Canada.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/870269388

title: Decolonizing Education: Nourishing the Learning Spirit
description: Documents the nature of Eurocentric models of education, and their devastating impacts on Indigenous knowledge. Chronicles the negative consequences of forced assimilation and racism inherent to colonial systems of education. Proposes a new model of education via the repositioning of Indigenous humanities, sciences, and languages as vital fields of knowledge.

Second description: Drawing on treaties, international law, the work of other Indigenous scholars, and especially personal experiences, Battiste documents the nature of Eurocentric models of education, and their devastating impacts on Indigenous knowledge and proposes a new model of education, arguing the preservation of Indigenous knowledge is an Indigenous right.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/856977069

title: Indigenous and Decolonizing Studies in Education: Mapping the Long View
description: Helps define and imagine the interstices between Indigenous and decolonizing education. Each chapter forwards principles that are grounded in place-specific efforts of creating Indigenous universities and schools, community organizing and social movements, trans and Two Spirit practices, refusals of state policies, and land-based and water-based pedagogies.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1038025395

title: Indigenous Education: New Directions in Theory and Practice
description: Formal teaching and learning occurs in contested places. Leading scholars from North America, New Zealand, and Hawaii disentangle aspects of colonialism from education to advance alternative philosophies of instruction. Contributors explore Indigenous education from theoretical and applied perspectives and invite readers to embrace new, informed ways of schooling.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1091624937

title: Teaching Each Other: Nehinuw Concepts and Indigenous Pedagogies
description: In recent decades educators have been seeking ways to improve outcomes for Indigenous students. Yet most Indigenous education still takes place within a theoretical framework based in Eurocentric thought. This book provides an alternative framework for teachers working with Indigenous students - one that moves beyond merely acknowledging Indigenous culture to one that actually strengthens Indigenous identity.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/875520841

title: Indigenizing the Academy: Transforming Scholarship and Empowering Communities
description: Offers approaches to incorporating Indigenous values and perspectives into the research methodologies and interpretive theories of scholarly disciplines such as psychology, political science, archaeology, and history. Proposes ways to effect meaningful change through building networks of support inside and outside the Indigenous academic community.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/53038726

title: Fostering Indigenous Student's Postsecondary Perseverance and Educational Success
description: Paints a portrait of Indigenous students’ realities to better understand their needs, and the barriers that hinder Indigenous access to and success in postsecondary education.
link: http://www.rcaaq.info/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/RCAAQ_2020_Favoriser-la-pers%C3%A9v%C3%A9rance-et-la-r%C3%A9ussite-%C3%A9ducative-des-%C3%A9tudiants-autochtones-au-postsecondaire-ENG.pdf

title: Tool Kit: Recommendations for Postsecondary Institutions Wanting to Improve Practices to Better Support Indigenous Students
description: Short summary of research findings and recommendations from the report above

link: http://www.rcaaq.info/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/RCAAQ_Bo%C3%AEte-%C3%A0-outis_2020_Favoriser-la-pers%C3%A9v%C3%A9rance-et-la-r%C3%A9ussite-%C3%A9ducative-des-%C3%A9tudiants-autochtones-au-postsecondaire-ENG.pdf

title: Understanding and Supporting School Transitions for Indigenous Youth in Urban Settings
description: A portrait of the number and nature of school transitions Indigenous children experience up to the age of 18, and how such changes affect these young people.
link: http://www.rcaaq.info/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Harmonious-School-Transitions_ENG.pdf

title: Indigenous Education Protocol for Colleges and Institutes
description: Founded on seven guiding principles, this document underscores the importance of structures and approaches required to address Indigenous peoples’ learning needs and support self-determination and socio-economic development of Indigenous communities.
link: https://www.collegesinstitutes.ca/policyfocus/indigenous-learners/protocol/

title: Co-exister pour apprendre
description: An initiative from Cegep de l’Outaouais to encourage other post-secondary institutions to increase cultural safety, as well as decolonize and indigenize.
link: https://reconciliation.csimple.org/accueil

title: Building relationships requires education
description: A blogpost that offers suggestions for improving education on topics related to Indigenous peoples and cultures.
link: https://apihtawikosisan.com/2011/12/building-relationships-requires-education/

title: 24 Tips on Creating Culturally Inclusive Schools
description: 
link: https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/24-tips-on-creating-culturally-inclusive-schools

title: Indigenous Ally Toolkit
description: Originally founded in 2008 as the Montreal Urban Aboriginal Community Strategy Network, the organization has since undergone an enormous transformation. Since its incorporation in 2019 as the Montreal Indigenous Community NETWORK, it has been a key actor in supporting the ecosystem of individuals and groups committed to improving the quality of life of the Inuit, First Nations, and Metis communities living in the Greater Montreal, particularly through the distribution of funds to community organizations working directly with urban Indigenous communities. The NETWORK facilitates co-creation spaces and develops solutions with other community organizations and groups who service the urban Indigenous communities. The NETWORK also transfers knowledge through advocacy, awareness-building and education by collaborating with identified partners, developing educational tools and providing workshops.
link: https://reseaumtlnetwork.com/resources/

title: Weaving Indigenous and Western Knowledge
description: An article discussing methods of incorporating Indigenous knowledge into Western Institutions and environmental sciences.
link: https://www.universityaffairs.ca/features/feature-article/weaving-indigenous-and-western-knowledge/

title: Decolonization Hub
description: Offers resources to help decolonize Concordia's curriculums.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/indigenous/resources.html

title: Inuit Nunangat
description: A selection of resources to learn more about the different Inuit communities in what is now called Canada.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/indigenous-fac-res/inuit-nunangat.html

title: Métis Resources
description: A selection of resources to learn about the Métis communities in what is now called Canada.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/indigenous-fac-res/metis-resources.html

title: Otsenhákta Student Centre
description: On-campus resource for Concordia's Indigenous student body. Provides a safe environment for Indigenous students to seek assistance and community.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/students/otsenhakta.html

title: Haudenosaunee Confederacy
description: A selection of resources to learn more about the Haudenosaunee Confederacy and its six nations.

Second description: A informational resource on the Haudenosaunee Confederacy developed by Concordia University
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/indigenous-fac-res/haudenosaunee-confederacy-.html

title: Concordia News: Indigenous topics
description: Offers latest Concordia news articles related to Indigenous topics, including stories about students and alumni.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/news/topic.html?topic=topics:general_interest/indigenous

title: Concordia’s Indigenous Student Librarian Program celebrates its first graduates
description: Sarah Monnier and Chloe Belair-Morin [author of this Companion Resource Guide!] complete the two-year, tri-university program while earning their master’s degrees in information studies
link: https://www.concordia.ca/news/stories/2022/08/23/concordias-indigenous-student-librarian-program-celebrates-its-first-graduates.html?c=/news/topic

title: 'I couldn’t believe the Aboriginal Sport Circle chose me'
description: Concordia Stinger wrestler Connor Church receives the Tom Longboat Award
link: https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/main/stories/2022/11/10/i-couldn-t-believe-the-aboriginal-sport-circle-chose-me.html?c=/news/topic

title: Concordia fine arts student Jason Sikoak honours residential school survivors with his Truth and Reconciliation keepsake coin design
description: The commemorative medallion is a collaborative effort between Inuit, First Nations and Métis artists
link: https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/main/stories/2022/09/30/concordia-fine-arts-student-jason-sikoak-honours-residential-school-survivors-with-his-truth-and-reconciliation-keepsake-coin-design.html?c=/news/topic

title: Star Horn: Painting to make sense of the world
description: Mohawk artist and graduate of the Fine Arts Bachelor program created popular Google doodle honouring Mary Two-Axe Earley

link: https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/offices/advancement/2022/06/02/star-horn-painting-to-make-sense-of-the-world.html?rootnav=news/stories

title: Concordia students share their research — and how it benefits Indigenous communities
description: Brooke Rice and Victoria May take first and second place in the inaugural Miywâcimo! storytelling competition
link: https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/main/stories/2022/04/05/concordia-students-share-their-research-and-how-it-benefits-indigenous-communities.html?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=facultystaff&utm_campaign=newsletter

title: Concordian Aiden Cyr receives the Schwarzman Scholarship to study global affairs in Beijing
description: Cyr has combined a highly successful academic career at Concordia with impactful work and volunteer experience in the areas of climate change, Indigenous rights and gender-based violence.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/main/stories/2022/02/10/concordian-aiden-cyr-receives-the-schwarzman-scholarship-to-study-global-affairs-in-beijing.html?c=/news/topic

title: 2021 Indigenous Graduation Celebration: Learn about the Grads
description: Read about the Indigenous students graduating this year.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/students/otsenhakta/events/graduation-2021.html

title: Otsenhákta Student Centre: a meaningful new name
description: Features Valerie Karonhiatakwen Gabriel, the student who submitted the winning name, describes the participative name change process and offers a glimpse at the centre itself.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/news/stories/2021/01/25/concordias-aboriginal-student-resource-centre-gets-a-meaningful-new-name.html

title: Concordia MFA candidate receives a 2021 Claudine and Stephen Bronfman Fellowship in Contemporary Art
description: Anishinaabe artist Nico Williams, from Aamjiwnaang First Nation, received the Bronfam Fellowship in Contemporary Art, a prestigious $60K award, for his multidisciplinary work and often-collaborative practice centered around sculptural beadwork.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/news/stories/2021/05/27/concordia-mfa-candidate-receives-a-2021-claudine-and-stephen-bronfman-fellowship-in-contemporary-art.html

title: Graduation 2020 - Meet the graduates
description: 
link: https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/otsenhakta/events/graduation-2020.html

title: Concordia PhD grad wins a 2020 Rhedding-Jones Outstanding Dissertation Award
description: Luz Marina Hoyos Vivas’s work focuses on early childhood education in Colombia’s Embera Chamí Indigenous community.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/stories/2021/03/11/concordia-phd-grad-wins-a-2020-rhedding-jones-outstanding-dissertation-award.html?c=/news/topic

title: 'My raison-d'être is to be a creator'
description: Jazz studies student Corey Thomas wants to inspire other Indigenous people to pursue their academic and artistic dreams.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/main/stories/2019/04/01/my-raison-d-etre-is-to-be-a-creator.html

title: Concordia grad student pays tribute to legendary Cree leader Chief Poundmaker
description: Alexandra Nordstrom curated an exhibit at the Poundmaker Cree Nation in Saskatchewan.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/news/stories/2019/06/06/concordia-art-history-grad-student-pays-tribute-to-legendary-cree-leader-chief-poundmaker.html

title: Concordia graduating student’s Indigenous video game wins a major prize
description: Maize Longboat's video game Terra Nova invites players to experience first contact between settlers and Indigenous people in the future. It netted him a major prize.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/news/stories/2019/11/08/concordia-graduating-students-indigenous-video-game-wins-a-major-prize.html

title: Concordia’s 2 new Trudeau Scholars bring an Indigenous lens to their next-gen research
description: From artificial intelligence (AI) to performance-based research-creation, Concordia PhD candidates Suzanne Kite and Diane Roberts apply an Indigenous lens to their respective fields, shaping the way we view the past, present and future.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/news/stories/2019/05/23/concordias-2-new-trudeau-scholars-bring-an-indigenous-lens-to-their-next-gen-research.html

title: 'I just focus on doing what I can': 3 Concordians win viceregal recognition
description: Brooke Wahsontiiostha Deer, a former business student from Kahnawake,Quebec, honoured for her participation on the Indigenous Directions Leadership Group and much more.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/main/stories/2018/06/04/I-just-focus-on-doing-what-I-can-viceregal-recognition-for-3-exceptional-concordians.html

title: ‘I’m excited to bring new voices into the arena’
description: Feature on former MA student Jas M Morgan [then going by Lindsay Nixon], and her job as editor-at-large for Canadian Art magazine.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/main/stories/2017/01/31/indigenous-resurgence-lindsay-nixon-joins-canadian-art-editorial-team.html

title: 'Inaccurate narratives prevent any possibility of meaningful reconciliation'
description: Concordia graduate Emilee Gilpin makes the case for new approaches to Indigenous stories.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/cunews/main/stories/2017/08/09/knowledge-stems-from-asking-questions.html

title: Becoming Nakuset
description: Concordia Applied Human Sciences graduate Nakuset is the Director of the award-winning Native Women's Shelter of Montreal, co-manager of Resilience Montreal and Indigenous columnist on MaTV Citylife. She  was featured by the Gazette as a Montrealer to Watch in 2021, sat down for virtual Coffee and Confession with an Eastern Door reporter in January, and is the subject of the recent Sixties Scoop documentary Becoming Nakuset.
link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9P4iYYL4FYY

title: Inuk artist’s design adorns new Royal Canadian Mint coin (Nunatsiaq News)
description: “[Concordia Fine Artst Student] Jason Sikoak said motivation for Nuliajuk design was to recover what was lost..He said he chose to carve Nuliajuk because of the story’s prevalence throughout Inuit Nunanga...On Sikoak’s coin, Nuliajuk is illustrated with seals emerging from her severed fingers. She is holding her braids as they are strewn across the bottom of the ocean...Sikoak grew up in Rigolet, a fly-in community in Labrador, and a part of Nunatsiavut. He only became a full-time artist a few years ago, but has been practising his craft since he was a child.” Photo courtesy of the artist
link: https://nunatsiaq.com/stories/article/inuk-artists-design-adorns-new-royal-canadian-mint-coin/?fbclid=IwAR2fnvX4Z9S1tsQ7g6Q0qPL6WwbQo6paK-vbQjJNMXANXmqFmv1FL4I7VQc

title: A meaningful new name at Concordia (Eastern Door)
description: Otsenhákta - safety and openness - was exactly the feeling Human Environment student Valerie Karonhiatakwen Gabriel wanted to share with her fellow students when she entered the contest aimed at choosing a new name for the Aboriginal Student Resource Centre.
link: https://easterndoor.com/2021/02/02/a-meaningful-new-name-at-concordia/

title: Rewriting Colonial Narratives (J-Source)
description: Kanienʼkehá꞉ka-led news sources like the Eastern Door and Iorì:wase, started by journalism grad Greg Horn, enrich media scene of Kahnawake, Que.
link: https://j-source.ca/rewriting-colonial-narratives/

title: Why this Montreal collective is moose hide tanning in urban spaces (CBC)
description: Article by Ka’nhehsí:io Deer covering Concordia graduate student Autumn Godwin's creation of the Buckskin Babes Collective, a group that organizes Moose Hide Tannings, throughout Montreal.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/moose-hide-tanning-urban-montreal-1.6036454

title: Indigenous artist in residency at the Centaur (Eastern Door)
description: “They were asking specifically about history and forgotten stories, and that’s my favorite field,” explained Ange Loft, a Concordia grad and multidisciplinary artist.
link: https://easterndoor.com/2021/05/10/indigenous-artist-in-residency-at-the-centaur/

title: Dealing with a housing crisis (Eastern Door)
description: Kahnawa’kehró:non Owen Skahionwiio Mayo, father of three and First Peoples Studies student at Concordia is one of the many frustrated community members looking for housing solutions within Kahnawake. The situation stems from a larger issue with systemic housing insecurity in Onkwehón:we communities across the country.
link: https://easterndoor.com/2021/05/17/dealing-with-a-housing-crisis/

title: Indigenous history on public display must be framed as a living, breathing thing (CBC)
description: An article written by Concordia student Ben Mulchinock regarding the outdated and racist language used in museums to discuss Indigenous cultures in and around Montreal.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/first-person-indigenous-representation-museums-culture-history-1.6059501

title: Centre d'art de Préville celebrates Craig Commanda 
description: Concordia Student Craig Commanda is an Algonquin Anishinaabe multidisciplinary artist from Kitigan Zibi who works through still and moving images, poetry, music, beadwork, and sound composition.
link: https://centrepreville.org/celebrating-indigenous-month/

title: 'The only thing Native in the schools were the children': former Indian day school students reflect on traumatic legacy (CTV)
description: First description: Featuring Wahéhshon Shiann Whitebean, recent Concordia Graduate and author of the Indigenous Elders Protocol, on her current PhD research at McGill on Indian Day Schools.

Second description: News Article on Indian residential Schools at Kahnawake based on survivor testimony
link: https://montreal.ctvnews.ca/the-only-thing-native-in-the-schools-were-the-children-former-indian-day-school-students-reflect-on-traumatic-legacy-1.5460999

title: Google doodle pays tribute to Indigenous women's rights advocate Mary Two-Axe Earley (CBC)
description: The June 28 2021 Google Doodle was designed by artist and Concordia alumna Star Horn.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/mary-two-axe-earley-google-doodle-1.6075604

title: How Indigenous skateboarders use their boards for creative expression and land reclamation (CBC Radio)
description: Describes how Indigenous youth are using skateboards to educate about colonialism and to reclaim their lands and featuring Concordia student Dustin Henry.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/radio/unreserved/how-indigenous-skateboarders-use-their-boards-for-creative-expression-and-land-reclamation-1.5755310

title: An evolving Concordia celebrates Indigenous graduates (CBC)
description: Over the past decade, Concordia University has seen a small but steady rise in the number of Indigenous graduates. Musicians, historians and public policy experts are part of the latest crop.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/concordia-university-indigenous-aboriginal-student-resource-centre-1.5165756

title: Montour ready to make a difference at Concordia (Eastern Door)
description: Kanien'kehá:ka student Brandon Mountour, majoring in Poli Sci and Sociolog, joined the prestigious Garnet Key Society and strives to use his passion for law and government to advocate for justice in Indigenous affairs.
link: https://easterndoor.com/2018/04/13/montour-ready-to-make-a-difference-at-concordia/

title: Pour une présence autochtone sur les scènes québécoises: un texte de Charles Bender
description: Charles Bender est un Huron-Wendat de Wendake. Comédien diplômé du programme d’interprétation de Concordia, il est connu des téléspectateurs pour des rôles dans Destinées, Les rescapés et Le gentleman (notamment).
link: https://voir.ca/scene/2015/11/23/pour-une-presence-autochtone-sur-les-scenes-quebecoises-un-texte-de-charles-bender/

title: Shannen's Dream monument campaign launched by family member (CBC)
description: Concordia alumnus Jules Koostachin, now a successful filmmaker, recalls difficult education experience that inspired her to push for a national monument to Shannen Koostachin, the young Cree activist who fought for better schools for First Nations children.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/shannen-s-dream-monument-campaign-launched-by-family-member-1.3105031

title: Indigenous youth taking lead in sexual health education (CBC)
description: Featuring Concordia Alumni Megan Kanerahtenhawi Whyte, sexual health education organizer and leader.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/indigenous-youth-taking-lead-in-sexual-health-education-1.2496377

title: The Inconvenient Indian: A Curious Account of Native People in North America
description: Reveals the evolution of how Indigenous peoples have been seen, understood, represented and propagandized in North America. Refashions old stories about historical events and figures, takes a sideways look at film and pop culture… and articulates a deep and revolutionary understanding of the cumulative effects of ever-shifting laws and treaties on Indigenous peoples and lands.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1083582683

title: Indigenous Writes: A Guide to First Nations, Métis & Inuit Issues in Canada
description: In Indigenous Writes, Chelsea Vowel initiates myriad conversations about the relationship between Indigenous peoples and Canada. An advocate for Indigenous worldviews, the author discusses the fundamental issues--the terminology of relationships; culture and identity; myth-busting; state violence; and land, learning, law and treaties--along with wider social beliefs about these issues.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1035317932

title: Clearing the Plains: Disease, Politics of Starvation, and the Loss of Aboriginal Life
description: Revealing how Canada's first Prime Minister used a policy of starvation against Indigenous people to clear the way for settlement, this multiple award-winning book sparked widespread debate about genocide in Canada.

link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/840250990

title: A National Crime: The Canadian Government and the Residential School System, 1879-1986
description: Using previously unreleased government documents, historian <em>John S. Milloy</em> provides a full picture of the history and reality of the residential school system.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/818658412

title: Unsettling the Settler Within: Indian Residential Schools, Truth Telling, and Reconciliation in Canada
description: Unsettling the Settler Within argues that non-Indigenous Canadians must undergo their own process of decolonization in order to truly participate in the transformative possibilities of reconciliation. Settlers must relinquish the persistent myth of themselves as peacemakers and acknowledge the destructive legacy of a society that has stubbornly ignored and devalued Indigenous experience.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/650442744

title: The Decolonial Toolbox: Educational Pathway
description: The result of a multi-year collaboration between the Office of Community Engagement, Mikana and the Montreal Indigenous Community NETWORK, this tool offers carefully-selected accessible resources produced by Indigenous peoples and organizations, showcasing Indigenous expertise. Use our attendant <a href="https://www.zotero.org/groups/4743100/decolonial_toolbox_resources_for_the_concordia_community/items/ZLMWX5XU/item-list" target="_blank"><b>ZOTERO GROUP LIBRARY</b></a> to create ready-made bibliographies based on the wealth of resources in the toolbox. All sources are either free to the public or available via Concordia-subscribed links. Can be searched by keyword and does not require a Zotero account.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/about/community/office/projects/decolonial-toolbox.html

title: Indigenous Canada
description: An online course offered by the University of Alberta that explores historical and current issues impacting Indigenous peoples in what is now called Canada.
link: https://www.ualberta.ca/admissions-programs/online-courses/indigenous-canada/index.html

title: It’s Our Time: The AFN Education Toolkit
description: An educational toolkit put together by The Assembly of First Nations to further learning on Indigenous issues and foster allyship.
link: https://education.afn.ca/afntoolkit/

title: Yellowhead Institute
description: An Indigenous-led university research institute that prioritizes Indigenous perspectives on policies regarding First Nations land and governance. It also aims to foster education and dialogue across fields of study, between the university and the wider community, and among Indigenous peoples and Canadians.
link: https://yellowheadinstitute.org/

title: All My Relations
description: A podcast hosted by Matika Wilbur and Adrienne Keene discussing various topics affecting Indigenous peoples today.
link: https://www.allmyrelationspodcast.com/

title: Media Indigena
description: Hosted by Rick Harp. A podcast that covers Indigenous current affairs in what is now called Canada and elsewhere.
link: https://podcasts.apple.com/ca/podcast/media-indigena-indigenous-current-affairs/id1092220986

title: The Secret Life of Canada
description: A CBC podcast hosted by Leah-Simone Bowen and Falen Johnson that covers historical topics that are neglected in the dominant history of what is now called Canada.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/radio/secretlifeofcanada

title: Telling Our Twisted Histories
description: a CBC podcast hosted by Kaniehti:io Horn that seeks to reclaim Indigenous histories by 11 words whose meanings have been twisted by settler colonialism. Based on an award-winning French-version of this podcast, <a href="https://ici.radio-canada.ca/ohdio/balados/7628/autochtones-traditions-communautes-langue-territoire" target="_blank">Laissez-nous raconter : L’histoire crochie</a> released by Radio-Canada in June 2020.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/listen/cbc-podcasts/906-telling-our-twisted-histories

title: This Land
description: A podcast hosted by Rebecca Nagle exploring a murder conviction in Oklahoma in 2000 that led to an investigation of treaty rights of five Indigenous tribes within the state.
link: https://crooked.com/podcast-series/this-land/

title: Unreserved
description: A CBC Radio show hosted by Falen Johnson. The show features guests from various Indigenous communities and covers important topics related to Indigenous peoples in what is now called Canada.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/radio/unreserved

title: Warrior Life
description: Hosted by Pam Palmater. A podcast that encourages listeners to decolonize their views and lifestyles and celebrates Indigenous cultures and traditions.
link: https://soundcloud.com/pampalmater

title: Aboriginal Peoples and the Canadian Military: Historical Perspectives
description: A book analysing Indigenous peoples’ contributions to the Canadian military throughout history. The chapters contribute to cross-cultural awareness by offering a critical, comparative approach to understanding Aboriginal peoples' military service in Canada and around the world.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/181078599

title: Indigenous in the City: Contemporary Identities and Cultural Innovation
description: The contributors to this volume explore the implications of urbanization on the production of distinctive Indigenous identities in Canada, the US, New Zealand, and Australia.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/826436744

title: NISHGA
description: <strong>An exploration of identity</strong>... rooted in a desire to illuminate the realities of intergenerational survivors of residential school... sheds light on Indigenous experiences that may not seem to be immediately (or inherently) Indigenous.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1111087843

title: The Court of Better Fiction: Three Trials, Two Executions, and Arctic Sovereignty
description: Covering the wrongful conviction and execution of two Inuit men by the Canadian government in 1921, this book discusses how the court case established Canada’s relationship with the Inuit and served to bolster the government’s push for Arctic sovereignty.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1043205904

title: Fighting for a Hand to Hold: Confronting Medical Colonialism Against Indigenous Children in Canada
description: An indispensable case study of contemporary medical colonialism in Quebec. This book exposes the medical establishment's role in the displacement, colonization, and genocide of Indigenous peoples in Canada.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1156985847

title: Honouring the Strength of Indian Women: Plays, Stories, Poetry
description: This critical edition delivers a unique and comprehensive collection of the works of Ktunaxa-Secwepemc writer and educator Vera Manuel, daughter of prominent Indigenous leaders Marceline Paul and George Manuel.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1080209448

title: Indigenous Men and Masculinities: Legacies, Identities, Regeneration
description: Brings together prominent thinkers to explore the meaning of masculinities and being a man within Indigenous communities and traditions, further examining the colonial disruption and imposition of patriarchy on Indigenous men.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/939262010

title: Love After the End: An Anthology of Two-Spirit & Indigiqueer speculative Fiction
description: This exciting and groundbreaking fiction anthology showcases a number of new and emerging 2SQ (Two-Spirit and queer) Indigenous writers from across Turtle Island. These visionary authors show how queer Indigenous communities can bloom and thrive through Utopian narratives that detail the vivacity and strength of 2SQness throughout its plight in the maw of settler colonialism's histories.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1144932250

title: Full Report: In Plain Sight: Addressing Indigenous-specific Racism and Discrimination in B.C. Healthcare
description: A full report discussing the author's findings from her investigation into the racist and discriminatory treatment of Indigenous peoples in the B.C Healthcare system.
link: https://www.bcchr.ca/sites/default/files/group-opsei/in-plain-sight-full-report.pdf

title: Final Report: Public Inquiry Commission on Relations between Indigenous Peoples and Certain Public Services in Québec: Listening, Reconciliation and Progress
description: A report summarizing the treatment of Indigenous peoples by public services in Quebec, as well as the quality of the services offered or lacking for Indigenous peoples.
link: https://www.cerp.gouv.qc.ca/fileadmin/Fichiers_clients/Rapport/Final_report.pdf

title: Indigenous Veterans: Equals on the Battlefields, But Not at Home
description: A blogpost discussing the discriminatory practices of the Canadian government to Indigenous veterans.
link: https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/indigenous-veterans

title: Josiah Wilson, the Indian Act, hereditary governance and blood quantum
description: An article analysing the use of blood quantum laws to determine status as an Indigenous person.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/josiah-wilson-indian-act-hereditary-governance-1.3668636

title: Vicky Boldo/kisêwâtisiwinyôtin:iskwew (Gentle Wind Woman): From Individual to Intergenerational Healing
description: An article discussing Vicky Boldo's/kisêwâtisiwinyôtin:iskwew's insigts on the role of connectedness and earth in the process of healing from trauma.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/8987251439

title: How Navajo code talkers helped the U.S. fight in WWII
description: A podcast episode discussing how a group of Navajo men created a code for communication to assist the U.S. In World War II.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/radio/unreserved/remembering-the-contributions-of-indigenous-veterans-1.4894412/how-navajo-code-talkers-helped-the-u-s-fight-in-ww-ii-1.4896385

title: You Should Know The Indian Film Crew
description: A podcast episode from The Secret Life of Canada. It discusses the NFB and the creation of the Indian Film Crew in the 1960's: an all Indigenous crew making documentaries.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/radio/secretlifeofcanada/why-you-should-know-the-indian-film-crew-1.5843618

title: Broken Promises - The High Arctic Relocation
description: A documentary by Patricia Tassinari covering the forced Relocation of Inuit families from Northern Quebec to the High Arctic.
link: https://www.nfb.ca/film/broken_promises_-_the_high_arctic_relocation/

title: Mary Two-Axe Earley: I Am Indian Again
description: A documentary by Courtney Montour about Mary Two-Axe Earley: a pioneer in Indigenous women's rights. Note: Coming Soon.
link: https://www.nfb.ca/film/mary-two-axe-earley/

title: Seeing Red: A History of Natives in Canadian Newspapers
description: The first book to examine the role of Canada's newspapers in perpetuating the myth of Native inferiority. Seeing Red is a groundbreaking study of how Canadian English-language newspapers have portrayed Aboriginal peoples from 1869 to the present day.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/899288568

title: The Red Man's on the Warpath: The Image of the "Indian" and the Second World War
description: The Red Man's on the Warpath explores how wartime symbolism and imagery propelled the "Indian problem" onto the national agenda, and why assimilation remained the goal of post-war Canadian Indian policy.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/243487577

title: Why Indigenous Literatures Matter
description: This provocative volume challenges readers to critically consider and rethink their assumptions about Indigenous literature, history, and politics while never forgetting the emotional connections of our shared humanity and the power of story to effect personal and social change.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/910987272

title: Elements of Indigenous Style: A Guide for Writing By and About Indigenous Peoples
description: Includes: a historical overview of the portrayal of Indigenous peoples in literature; common errors and how to avoid them when writing about Indigenous peoples; guidance on working in a culturally sensitive way; a discussion of problematic and preferred terminology; suggestions for editorial guidelines.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1028142966

title: Indigenous People, Crime and Punishment
description: Examines criminal sentencing courts' changing characterisations of Indigenous peoples' identity, culture and postcolonial status. Focusing largely on Australian Indigenous peoples, but drawing also on the Canadian experiences, Thalia Anthony critically analyses how the judiciary have interpreted Indigenous difference.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/854761511

title: Myths and Realities About Indigenous Peoples
description: A report offered in both French and English that debunks popular myths about Indigenous Peoples and seeks to educate people properly about the realities of being Indigenous in what is now known as Quebec.
link: https://www.cdpdj.qc.ca/fr/publications/mythes-et-realites-peuples-autochtones

title: Think Before You Appropriate: Things to know and questions to ask in order to avoid misappropriating Indigenous cultural heritage
description: A guide for artists put together by Simon Fraser University explaining cultural appropriation.
link: http://www.sfu.ca/ipinch/sites/default/files/resources/teaching_resources/think_before_you_appropriate_jan_2016.pdf

title: Rewriting journalism: How Canadian media reinforces Indigenous stereotypes
description: Within this interview, professor Carmen Robertson discusses representations of Indigenous people in media and how news stories have shaped representations of indigenous identity.
link: https://www.tvo.org/article/rewriting-journalism-how-canadian-media-reinforces-indigenous-stereotypes

title: Myth-Busting: Myths about Indigenous Peoples of Canada
description: A blogpost that debunks stereotypes that settlers impress upon Indigenous peoples.
link: https://immigrant-education.ca/knowledge-base/myth-busting-indigenous-myths/

title: Reel Injun
description: A documentary analysing the representation of Indigenous peoples in film.
link: https://www-nfb-ca.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/film/reel_injun/

title: Refocusing the lens: how Indigenous people are using documentaries to tell their own stories
description: A podcast episode discussing how Indigenous filmmakers are reframing the way Indigenous people are represented in media.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/radio/unreserved/refocusing-the-lens-how-indigenous-people-are-using-documentaries-to-tell-their-own-stories-1.6016362

title: Native Fashion
description: A podcast episode with guests Jamie Okuma and Dr. Jessica Metcalfe, discussing the Indigenous fashion world.
link: https://www.allmyrelationspodcast.com/podcast/episode/4719b685/ep-8-native-fashion

title: Indigenous fashion: The politics of ribbon skirts, runways and resilience
description: A podcast episode discussing how Indigenous fashion makes a political statement of strength and resilience.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/radio/unreserved/indigenous-fashion-the-politics-of-ribbon-skirts-runways-and-resilience-1.6034149

title: Indigenous Identity Fraud: A Report for the University of Saskatchewan
description: Report about individuals who falsely take on Indigenous identity with the intention of gaining material benefits at University of Saskatchewan. Includes research and recommendations relevant well beyond that university, as well as an extensive bibliography.
link: https://leadership.usask.ca/documents/about/reporting/jean-teillet-report.pdf

title: Distorted Descent: White Claims to Indigenous Identity
description: Examines a social phenomenon that has taken off in the twenty-first century: otherwise white, French descendant settlers in Canada shifting into a self-defined “Indigenous” identity. Brings to light how these identity claims are used politically to oppose actual, living Indigenous peoples, exposing along the way the shifting politics of whiteness, white settler colonialism, and white supremacy.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1090688334

title: Native American DNA: Tribal Belonging and the False Promise of Genetic Science
description: Shows how DNA testing in the U.S. is a problematic scientific process that is useful in determining close biological relatives. But tribal membership is a legal category that has developed in dependence on certain social understandings and historical contexts, a set of concepts that entangles genetic information in a web of family relations, reservation histories, tribal rules, and government regulations.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/836557812

title: Beyond Blood: Rethinking Indigenous Identity
description: Beginning with an historic overview of legislative enactments defining Indian status and their impact on First Nations, the author examines contemporary court rulings dealing with Indigenous identity, Aboriginal rights, and the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. She argues that First Nations must determine citizenship themselves.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/707818033

title: Research, Ethnic Fraud, and the Academy: A Protocol for Working with Indigenous Communities and Peoples
description: Includes a proposal for a Protocol for Working with Indigenous Communities so that the broader research community might begin to seriously examine the role of identity and identity fraud.
link: https://yellowheadinstitute.org/2019/08/20/research-ethnic-fraud-and-the-academy-a-protocol-for-working-with-indigenous-communities-and-peoples/

title: "Real" Indians and Others: Mixed-Blood Urban Native Peoples and Indigenous Nationhood
description: Draws on the first-person accounts of thirty Toronto residents of Indigenous heritage, as well as archival materials, sociological research, and the author’s own urban Indigenous heritage and experiences. She sheds light on the Canadian government's efforts to define identity by means of the Indian Act and shows how residential schooling and adoption have affected Indigenous identity.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/53307792

title: The Ethics of Cultural Appropriation
description: The Ethics of Cultural Appropriation undertakes a comprehensive and systematic investigation of the moral and aesthetic questions that arise from the practice of cultural appropriation. It Explores cultural appropriation in a wide variety of contexts, among them the arts and archaeology, museums, and religion.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/221152875

title: Indigenous Peoples' Cultural Property Claims: Repatriation and Beyond
description: This book analyses the legal aspects of international claims by indigenous peoples for the repatriation of their cultural property and explores what legal norms and normative orders would be appropriate for resolving these claims.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/868301023

title: Our identities have become one more thing for Canada to steal
description: Indiginews First Person article. Proximity does not equal kinship, and one simply cannot claim to be Indigenous based on family lore.
link: https://indiginews.com/first-person/our-identities-have-become-one-more-thing-for-canada-to-steal

title: We must adopt policies that require proof of Indigenous status and end self-identification
description: Opinion piece by the president of Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami, the national representational organization for Inuit in Canada. Misrepresentation gives pretenders an advantage over both non-Indigenous and Indigenous peoples
link: https://www.cbc.ca/news/opinion/opinion-indigenous-self-identification-must-end-natan-obed-1.6624157

title: Growing up disconnected looked different for me than so-called ‘pretendians’
description: IndigiNews First Person. Discussing identity can be confusing and even shameful — and that’s exactly how Canada wants it.
link: https://indiginews.com/first-person/growing-up-disconnected-looked-different-for-me-than-so-called-pretendians

title: Indigenous identity fraud is encouraged in academia. Here's how to change that.
description: CBC Opinion piece from November 2021 by the Dean of the Faculty of Native Studies at the University of Alberta, also a Métis from the Parkland region of Saskatchewan. What is it about university structures that allows these dynamics to continue?
link: https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/saskatchewan/opinion-chris-andersen-indigenous-identity-fraud-1.6236018

title: Who Bears the Steep Costs of Ethnic Fraud?
description: The issue that gets lost in ethnic fraud cases is how they require the participation of the mostly White cultural and academic institutions who hire them. Opinion piece in Hyperallergic. Fung is "a writer and organizer working across intersections of histories and identities."
link: https://hyperallergic.com/650522/who-bears-the-steep-costs-of-ethnic-fraud/

title: The harmful, ‘cynical and self-serving’ nature of Indigenous identity fraud
description: APTN Nation to Nation interview with Kim TallBear.
link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UEP7VkdmO4o

title: Pretendians
description: As our stories, history, music, art and culture grow in popularity – so do the people who want to belong. How do we determine who belongs and how do we weed out those who want to take advantage of the almighty funding dollar? Dr. Winona Wheeler and Sadie-Phoenix Lavoie join the Aunties to wade through the weeds on pretendians and identity.
link: https://podcasts.apple.com/ca/podcast/ep-16-pretendians/id1592723511?i=1000575519703

title: Stolen identities: What does it mean to be Indigenous?
description: Over the last few years, we’ve seen a lot of high-profile figures accused of falsely claiming Indigenous identity, of being “Pretendians.” These cases have become big news stories, but they have big real-life consequences, too. Misidentifying as Indigenous can have financial and social consequences, with the misdirection of funds, jobs or grants meant for Indigenous peoples. Vinita delves into it all with two researchers who look at identity and belonging in Indigenous communities.
link: https://theconversation.com/stolen-identities-what-does-it-mean-to-be-indigenous-dont-call-me-resilient-podcast-ep-8-transcript-166252?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter

title: Contemplating the Consequences of Colonial Cosplay Pt 1
description: With issues of identity reaching a fever pitch of late, we thought we’d take its temperature. From Michelle Latimer’s contested claims to Indigeneity, to an ever-growing, quasi-underground list of Alleged Pretendians, not to mention a Twitter tempest over light-skin privilege, we’ll break down what’s at play and what’s at stake.
link: https://mediaindigena.libsyn.com/contemplating-the-consequences-of-colonial-cosplay-ep-245

title: Creating Culpability for Colonial Cosplay Pt 2
description: Punishment for Pretendians: the back half of our extended look at colonial cosplay. And if part one was all about the problem, this part’s all about solutions. Just what is to be done about all these faux First Nations actors, authors and academics? What mechanisms might we use, and by whose authority? Does it make sense to target all the players, or would it be better to re-write the rules of the game?
link: https://mediaindigena.libsyn.com/creating-culpability-for-colonial-cosplay-pt-2-ep-246

title: The Convenient “Pretendian”
description: Michelle Latimer was the buzziest Canadian director and showrunner of 2020. But it all came crashing down in December when a CBC investigation called into question her Indigenous identity claims.
link: https://www.canadaland.com/podcast/359-the-convenient-pretendian/

title: “Pretendians” On Campus?
description: Queen's University quickly rejected the findings of an anonymous report accusing six people associated with the school of misrepresenting their Indigenous identities. That prompt dismissal has raised questions about the non-status Ardoch Algonquin group, and the controversial academic from the U.S. who co-founded it.
link: https://www.canadaland.com/podcast/374-pretendians-on-campus/

title: Can a DNA test make me Native American?
description: Can a DNA test make me Native American? As direct-to-consumer ancestry DNA tests gain popularity and narratives of “discovering” or “proving” Native American ancestry through DNA swirl through the media—what does that mean for Indigenous nations?
link: https://www.buzzsprout.com/262196/992942

title: Kim TallBear on Native Identity and Relations
description: We talk to Dr. Kim TallBear - a citizen of the Sissteon-Wahpeton Oyate in South Dakota - about Native identity and the importance of relationships in determining belonging.
link: https://soundcloud.com/pampalmater/kim-tallbear-on-native-identity-and-relations

title: Canada's effective monopoly on First Nations citizenship
description: In this episode, we sit down with Yellowhead Associate Fellow Damien Lee to learn more about what's driving federal moves to restrict the principle to Status Indian kids only—in other words, to only those kids Canada deems 'legitimately' Indian, regardless of who First Nations themselves claim as citizens.
link: https://mediaindigena.libsyn.com/canadas-effective-monopoly-on-first-nations-citizenship-ep-243

title: Native Appropriations
description: Explores the topic of cultural appropriation—it’s become such a buzzword, but what is it, really? Conversation ranges from the infamous white savior photographer Edward S. Curtis to Halloween.
link: https://open.spotify.com/episode/0hsU7CojmH5l7ESsYzBaxY

title: 21 Things You May Not Know About the Indian Act
description: The Indian Act, after 141 years, continues to shape, control, and constrain the lives and opportunities of Indigenous peoples, and is at the root of many lasting stereotypes.Joseph explains how Indigenous peoples can step out from under the Indian Act and return to self-government, self-determination, and self-reliance-and why doing so would result in a better country for every Canadian.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1035253374

title: Warrior Life: Indigenous Resistance & Resurgence
description: Addresses a range of Indigenous issues--empty political promises, ongoing racism, sexualized genocide, government lawlessness and the lie that is reconciliation--making complex political and legal implications accessible to all.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/v2/oclc/1156396129

title: Braiding Sweetgrass
description: Drawing on her life as an Indigenous scientist and as a woman, Kimmerer shows how other living beings offer us gifts and lessons, even if we've forgotten how to hear their voices. In reflections that range from the creation of Turtle Island to the forces that threaten its flourishing today, she circles toward a central argument: that the awakening of ecological consciousness requires the acknowledgment and celebration of our reciprocal relationship with the rest of the living world.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/829743464

title: “Do You Live in a Teepee?” Aboriginal Students’ Experiences With Racial Microaggressions in Canada
description: The authors identified 5 distinct themes that represented Indigenous students’ experiences with racial microaggressions on campus: (a) encountering expectations of primitiveness, (b) enduring unconstrained voyeurism, (c) withstanding jealous accusations, (d) experiencing curricular elimination or misrepresentation, and (e) living with day-to-day cultural and social isolation.
link: https://psycnet-apa-org.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/fulltext/2014-24641-004.pdf

title: Indigenous Canadian University Students’ Experiences of Microaggressions
description: Investigated Indigenous Canadian university students’ experiences of racial microaggresions via focus-group and interviews. Seven themes emerged: overt discrimination; assumption of intellectual inferiority; assumption of criminality; invalidation or denial; second-class citizen; racial segregation; and myth of meritocracy. Suggestions for culturally competent educational practices are provided.
link: https://link-springer-com.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/article/10.1007/s10447-018-9345-z

title: Plan d'action de l'APNQL sur le racisme et la discrimination
description: A plan of action to address the discrimination of Indigenous peoples in Quebec and Labrador, prepared by the Assemblée des Premières Nations du Québec-Labrador. See especially p.8, "comment s'engager".
link: https://www.itum.qc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/PLAN-ACTION-RACISME-ET-DISCRIMINATION_VF.pdf

title: In Plain Sight, Addressing Indigenous-Specific Racism and Discrimination in B.C. Health Care
description: A report discussing the institutional racism Indigenous Peoples of British Columbia face in the healthcare system.
link: https://www.cbrc.net/in_plain_sight_addressing_indigenous_specific_racism_and_discrimination_in_b_c_health_care

title: Indigenous cultural competency self-assessment checklist
description: A resource to help you determine where your cultural competency stands, and the areas you need improvement.
link: https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/indigenous-cultural-competency-self-assessment-checklist

title: Native Land
description: A resource to learn about the Indigenous lands and waters that settler communities are situated on.

Second description: A visual representation of territories, languages and treaties focusing on the Indigenous peoples of North America

Third description: As noted on their <a href="https://native-land.ca/about/why-it-matters/" target="_blank">why it matters</a> page, “Native Land Digital strives to create and foster conversations about the history of colonialism, Indigenous ways of knowing, and settler-Indigenous relations, through educational resources such as our map and Territory Acknowledgement Guide. Some settlers may be, for the first time, encountering the depth, breadth, and complexity of Indigenous history on the land, and we hope this leads to further exploration and understanding of the history of colonialism.”
link: https://native-land.ca/

title: Resources for Educators, Students and Families
description: An organization dedicated to creating a more responsive educational environment for Indigenous students.
link: https://fppse.net/resources/

title: What is Indigenous Cultural Safety—and Why Should I Care About It?
description: Explaining cultural safety and relevant terms.

"This article opens up a dialogue on the long-standing issue of Indigenous people experiencing harm while trying to access services—in health care, justice, child and family services and education. We argue that a cultural safety approach presents a promising way forward."
link: https://www.heretohelp.bc.ca/visions/indigenous-people-vol11/what-indigenous-cultural-safety-and-why-should-i-care-about-it

title: Mikana
description: Founded in 2015, Mikana - which means path in the Anishinaabe language - is a Tiohti:áke/Montreal-based Indigenous non-profit organization whose mission is to work for social change by educating different audiences on the realities and perspectives of Indigenous Peoples. The initiative is the result of a desire to generate concrete action against racism and discrimination against Indigenous Peoples, and contributes to breaking down the barriers between Indigenous and non-Indigenous worlds.
link: https://www.mikana.ca/

title: 9 Tips for a Culturally Competent Environment for Indigenous Patients
description: Aimed at health professionals but transferable to public service providers and others. From the Working Effectively with Indigenous Peoples® blog.
link: https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/9-ways-to-create-a-culturally-competent-environment-for-indigenous-patients

title: Montreal Indigenous community NETWORK
description: Supports the ecosystem of individuals and groups committed to improving the quality of life of First Nations, Inuit, and Métis communities living in the greater Montreal area.
link: https://reseaumtlnetwork.com/

title: Native Montreal
description: An organization that seeks to support the holistic health and cultural strength of Indigenous youth, families, and communities in Montreal.
link: https://nativemontreal.com/

title: Projects & Programs
description: A list and description of the programs and projects of the shelter to support and assist Indigenous women and children.
link: http://www.nwsm.info/en/projects-programs

title: Projets Autochtones du Québec (PAQ)
description: Indigenous organization that accompanies First Nations, Inuit and Métis peoples facing housing insecurity in Tio’tià: ke / Montréal. Using a culturally adapted approach based on empowerment and harm reduction, we offer shelter, housing options and services that promote well-being and healing, and strengthen community.
link: https://www.paqc.org/en/home/

title: Kanien’kehá:ka Onkwawén:na Raotitióhkwa 
Language and Cultural Center 
description: Dedicated to preserving the language and culture of the Kanien’kehá:ka community Kahnawà:ke.
link: https://www.korkahnawake.org/

title: Kahnawà:ke Environment Protection Office
description: 
link: https://kahnawakeenvironment.com/

title: History of Kahnawá:ke
description: 
link: https://kahnawaketourism.com/pages/history

title: Guide to Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls Inquiry
description: 
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/first-peoples-studies/guide-to-missing-and-murdered-indigenous-women-and-girls-inquiry.html

title: Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada (TRC)
description: Contains the official reports and calls to action, and additional resources to learn about Canada's residential schools.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/first-peoples-studies/truth-and-reconciliation-commission-of-canada--trc-.html

title: Indigenous Elder and Community Protocols
description: A guide to assist staff, faculty, and students on best practices for respectfully interacting and collaborating with Indigenous Elders and community members.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/indigenous/resources/elder.html

title: Guide to Acknowledging First Peoples & Traditional Territory
description: A guide produced by Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) recommended territorial acknowledgement for institutions organized and with examples by province.
link: https://www.caut.ca/content/guide-acknowledging-first-peoples-traditional-territory

title: Native Land Acknowledgement
description: Provided by Native Governance Center, this guide offers tips for creating an Indigenous Land Acknowledgement Statement.
link: https://research.dom.edu/c.php?g=1098125&p=8015871

title: LISSA Land Acknowledgement, Template for Personalization, Definitions, and Speaker Protocol
description: This resources provides suggested questions for reflection in order to create a meaningful Acknowledgement. Produced by the University of Alberta's Library and Information Sciences Students' Association.
link: https://era.library.ualberta.ca/items/79413256-fdc7-4eb6-b3d9-97d981f6337b

title: Territory Acknowledgement
description: Produced by Native Land.ca, this blog post provides additional resources for doing land acknowledgements.
link: https://native-land.ca/resources/territory-acknowledgement/

title: Whose Land
description: Whose Land is a web-based app which provides an visual aid in identifying Indigenous Nations, territories, and Indigenous communities across Canada.
link: https://www.whose.land/en/

title: Map of Ontario treaties and reserves
description: A visual map produced by Ontario government of the more than 40 treaties and other land agreements covered within Ontario. Treaties are legal agreements that set out the rights and responsibilities of First Nations and the provincial and federal governments.
link: https://www.ontario.ca/page/map-ontario-treaties-and-reserves

title: Linguistic Diversity & territorial lands of Indigenous Nations
description: An Canadian Encyclopedia article discussing the linguistic diversity of indigenous nations in Canada. Also provides a helpful visual map of language areas.
link: https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/aboriginal-people-languages

title: Learn about the Land and Peoples of Tiohtià:ke/ Montreal
description: Developed by McGill University Indigenous Initiatives, this guide provides a breakdown of the different communities territories in which Montreal is currently located.
link: https://www.mcgill.ca/indigenous/land-and-peoples/learn-about-land-and-peoples-tiohtiake-montreal

title: First Nations, Metis and Inuit – Indigenous Ontologies (FNMIIO)
description: The document linked in this post features a compiled working list of Indigenous Names to better reflect how Indigenous people currently prefer to refer to themselves.
link: https://www.nikla-ancla.com/post/first-nations-metis-and-inuit-indigenous-ontologies-fnmiio

title: Introduce yourself in Kanyen'keha!
description: Youtube lesson from Onkwawenna.
link: https://youtu.be/gQ8Hbno1Jak

title: Adult Indigenous Language Classes
description: Fall courses can be offered in James Bay Cree, Inuktitut, Kanien'kéha.
link: https://nativemontreal.com/en/language

title: Kontinónhstats (Kanehsatake Voices)
description: 37 web lessons from Mohawk Language Custodian Association.
link: http://www.kanehsatakevoices.com/lessons/lesson-1/

title: Kanien'kéha (Mohawk)
description: Kanien'kéha landing page for FirsVoices, an online language learning space where language teams work with elders to curate and upload audio recordings, dictionaries, songs and stories.
link: https://www.firstvoices.com/explore/FV/sections/Data/Kanehsat%C3%A0:ke/Mohawk/Kanien'k%C3%A9ha%20(Mohawk)%20Eng

title: Resources for learning Mohawk
description: A listing of community language and immersion programs and resources, as well as university courses.
link: https://newjourneys.ca/en/articles/resources-for-learning-mohawk

title: Mohawk Language in the Workplace
description: A PDF document from Six Nations Polytechnic/Deyohahá:ge: Indigenous Knowledge Centre.
link: https://www.snpolytechnic.com/sites/default/files/docs/resource/mohawk_in_the_workplace_booklet_2015-snp.pdf

title: The Kanien’keha Online Language Resources
description: Resources to learn or contribute to the revitilization and widespread use of the Mohawk language (Kanien’keha)

link: https://kgps.ca/mohawk-resources/

title: NEWSBRIEF: Historic funding application entirely in nêhiyawewin questions colonized framework
description: The Insight Development Grant proposal, entitled isihcikewin e apatak ka natahîwe: atoskatamik tanisi kesi pîtos kiskinohamake, is the first of its kind to be submitted to the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC). The team was led by nôcikwesiw (Elder) Dr. Leona Makokis, a ceremony and language holder from the Kehewin Cree Nation.
link: https://socialwork.ucalgary.ca/news/historic-proposal-questions-colonized-framework

title: FirstVoices
description: An online space for Indigenous communities to share and promote language, oral culture and linguistic history. Language teams work with elders to curate and upload audio recordings, dictionaries, songs and stories. <a href="https://www.firstvoices.com/explore/FV/sections/Data" target="_blank"><b>Explore languages</b></a> to see the extensive list of languages covered.
link: https://www.firstvoices.com/

title: Resources for Language Learning
description: From the New Journeys site, links to varied resources including courses,, for learning Kanien'kéha (Mohawk), nêhiyaw (Cree), Ojibwe, Mi’kmaq and more.
link: https://newjourneys.ca/en/articles/search?query=language

title: Ojibwe People's Dictionary
description: 
link: https://ojibwe.lib.umn.edu/

title: Algonquin Dictionary
description: 
link: http://www.thealgonquinway.ca/English/dictionary-e.php

title: Mi'gmaq/Mi’kmaq language Online
description: 
link: https://mikmaqonline.org/

title: Innu-Aimun Language Resources: Dictionaries
description: Innu-aimun.ca is an open-source, trilingual website where viewers can access a wide range of resources in and about Innu.
link: https://www.innu-aimun.ca/english/dictionaries/

title: Manuel d'initiation a lange Innue
description: PDF only in French.
link: https://c0deaa08-2841-4735-8395-579d4d9e6b76.filesusr.com/ugd/51971c_c5f4cae3f90a4370a058fcf8a7a5de6a.pdf

title: Indigenous languages – Learning and teaching resources
description: A list of tools, courses, exercises and other resources for teaching and learning Indigenous languages.
link: https://www.noslangues-ourlanguages.gc.ca/en/ressources-resources/autochtones-aboriginals/apprentissage-learning-eng

title: Beyond Land Acknowledgment in Settler Institutions
description: What does land acknowledgment do? Where does it come from? Where is it pointing? Existing literature, especially critiques by Indigenous scholars, unequivocally assert that settler land acknowledgments are problematic in their favoring of rhetoric over action. However, formal written statements may challenge institutions to recognize their complicity in settler colonialism and their institutional responsibilities to tribal sovereignty. Building on these critiques, particularly the writings of Métis cultural producer Chelsea Vowel, this article offers beyond as a framework for how institutional land acknowledgments can or cannot support Indigenous relationality, land pedagogy, and accountability to place and peoples.
link: https://read.dukeupress.edu/social-text/article-standard/39/1%20(146)/21/173031/Beyond-Land-Acknowledgment-in-Settler-Institutions

title: Canadiens’ land acknowledgment gets politicized
description: Discusses the Montreal Canadiens land acknowledgement,first introduced October 16 2021, and the influence Concordia's text.
link: https://easterndoor.com/2021/10/29/canadiens-land-acknowledgment-gets-politicized/

title: Opinion: Before you state a land acknowledgement, mean it
description: 
link: https://theeyeopener.com/2021/03/opinion-before-you-state-a-land-acknowledgement-mean-it/

title: As Indigenous land acknowledgments become the norm, critics question whether the gesture has lost its meaning
description: 
link: https://www.theglobeandmail.com/canada/article-has-indigenous-land-acknowledgment-at-public-gatherings-become-an/

title: Beyond territorial acknowledgments
description: 
link: https://apihtawikosisan.com/2016/09/beyond-territorial-acknowledgments/

title: What's wrong with land acknowledgments, and how to make them better
description: 
link: https://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/land-acknowledgments-what-s-wrong-with-them-1.6217931

title: Nos traités, nos relations
description: Episode from the French podcast series Oser s'en parler about treaties and Indigenous-settler relations. Territorial acknowlegements are discussed near the end of the podcast.
link: https://www.osersenparler.ca/nos-traites-nos-relations/

title: Settler: Identity and Colonialism in 21st Century Canada
description: Being a settler means understanding that what is now called Canada is deeply entangled in the violence of colonialism, which continues to define contemporary political, economic and cultural life. It also means accepting our responsibility to struggle for change. This book offers ways to decolonize relationships so that we can find new ways of being on the land, together.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/909975246

title: Impact: Colonialism in Canada
description: A collection of fiction, poetry, essays and creative non-fiction, this anthology features works by over 20 Indigenous Canadian writers. The book focuses on the effects of colonialism in Canada from both historical and contemporary perspectives.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/963394191

title: Racism, Colonialism, and Indigeneity in Canada: A Reader
description: A collection of readings, written primarily by Indigenous scholars, examining the impact of racism and the obligations of Indigenous peoples and settler colonialists in terms of understanding, acknowledging, and taking responsibility for colonial injustices.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/982389757

title: Pollution is Colonialism
description: A framework for understanding scientific research methods as practices that can align with or against colonialism. Focusing on plastic pollution, the book models an anticolonial scientific practice aligned with Indigenous, particularly Métis, concepts of land, ethics, and relations.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1182842213

title: A Bounded Land: Reflections on Settler Colonialism in Canada
description: Through a series of vignettes Cole Harris exposes the underlying architecture of colonialism, from first contacts, to the immigrant experience in early Canada, to the dispossession of First Nations. In the process, he unearths fresh insights on the influence of Indigenous peoples and argues that Canada's boundedness is ultimately drawing it toward its Indigenous roots.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1145079792

title: Entering the War Zone: A Mohawk Perspective on Resisting Invasions
description: One of the earliest Kanien’kehaka accounts of the 1990 blockade at Oka and an in depth look at colonial aggression, dispossession of Kanien’kehaka land as well as Kanien’kehaka resistance in defense of sovereignty.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/30970561

title: Wrestling with Colonialism on Steroids: Quebec Inuit Fight for their Homeland
description: In this concise, lively account, Zebedee Nungak relates the inside story of how the young Inuit and Cree "Davids" took action when Québec began construction on the giant James Bay hydro project. They fought in court and at the negotiation table for an accord that effectively became Canada's first land-claims agreement.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/967787917

title: No Surrender: The Land Remains Indigenous
description: According to Sheldon Krasowski's research, Canada understood that the Cree, Anishnabeg, Saulteaux, Assiniboine, Siksika, Piikani, Kainaa, Stoney and Tsuu T'ina nations wanted to share the land with newcomers--with conditions--but were misled over governance, reserved lands, and resource sharing. No Surrender demonstrates that the land remains Indigenous.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1045470220

title: Canada and Colonial Genocide
description: This volume provides scholarly analyses of the multiple dimensions or processes of settler colonialism and its aftermaths in Canada. Various acts of genocidal violence are covered, including residential schools, repressive legal or governmental controls, ecological destruction, and disease spread.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1006802636

title: Beyond 94: Truth and Reconciliation in Canada
description: An interactive webpage created by the CBC that discusses Truth and Reconciliation in Canada.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/newsinteractives/beyond-94?&cta=1

title: Calls to Action Accountability: A 2022 Status Update on Reconciliation
description: It has now been six years since the Truth and Reconciliation Commission released its six-volume Final Report along with the 94 Calls to Action, meant to remedy the ongoing structural legacy of Canada’s Residential Schools and to advance reconciliation in Canada.
link: https://yellowheadinstitute.org/trc/

title: The Reconciliation Manifesto: Recovering the Land, Rebuilding the Economy
description: In this book Arthur Manuel and Grand Chief Ronald Derrickson challenge virtually everything that non-Indigenous Canadians believe about their relationship with Indigenous Peoples and the steps that are needed to place this relationship on a healthy and honourable footing.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/990233977

title: The Limits of Settler Colonial Reconciliation: Non-Indigenous Peoples and the Responsibility to Engage
description: This book explores concepts and practices of reconciliation in the context of Australia and beyond, considering the structural and attitudinal limits to such efforts in settler colonial countries. Includes contributions about settler colonialism and the politics of reconciliation.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/964329203

title: A Culture of Exploitation: “Reconciliation” and the Institutions of Canadian Art
description: [A] series of interviews conducted with cultural workers during the COVID-19 pandemic...reveal a renewed exploitation of their labour and their works.
link: https://yellowheadinstitute.org/resources/a-culture-of-exploitation-reconciliation-and-the-institutions-of-canadian-art/

title: Red Skin, White Masks: Rejecting the Colonial Politics of Recognition
description: Challenges recognition as a method of organizing difference and identity in liberal politics, questioning the assumption that contemporary difference and past histories of destructive colonialism between the state and Indigenous peoples can be reconciled through a process of acknowledgment. See especially the chapter Seeing red: reconciliation and resentment.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/875769300

title: Resurgence and Reconciliation: Indigenous-Settler Relations and Earth Teachings
description: Resurgence refers to practices of Indigenous self-determination and cultural renewal whereas reconciliation refers to practices between Indigenous and Settler nations such as treaty negotiations. Reconciliation also refers to the sustainable reconciliation of Indigenous and Settler peoples with the living earth as the grounds for resurgence.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1077712553

title: Standoff: Why Reconciliation Fails Indigenous People and How to Fix it
description: in this series of essays, lawyer and historian Bruce McIvor's message is consistent and powerful: if Canadians are brave enough to confront the reality of the country's colonialist past and present and insist that politicians replace empty promises with concrete, meaningful change, there is a realistic path forward based on respect, recognition and the implementation of Indigenous rights.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1260451133

title: As We Have Always Done: Indigenous Freedom Through Radical Resistance
description: Locates Indigenous political resurgence as a practice rooted in uniquely Indigenous theorizing, writing, organizing, and thinking. Indigenous resistance is a radical rejection of contemporary colonialism focused around the refusal of the dispossession of both Indigenous bodies and land. Calls for unapologetic, place-based Indigenous alternatives to the destructive logics of the settler colonial state including heteropatriarchy, white supremacy, and capitalist exploitation.

Second description: Simpson locates Indigenous political resurgence as a practice rooted in uniquely Indigenous theorizing, writing, organizing, and thinking. Indigenous resistance is a radical rejection of contemporary colonialism focused around the refusal of the dispossession of both Indigenous bodies and land.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/982091807

title: Land Back: A Yellowhead Institute Red Paper
description: More than a report, the land back project is about reclaiming Indigenous jurisdiction: breathing life into rights and responsibilities. This Red Paper is about how Canada dispossesses Indigenous peoples from the land, and in turn, what communities are doing to get it back.
link: https://redpaper.yellowheadinstitute.org/

title: Visioning a Mi'kmaw Humanities: Indigenizing the Academy
description: Drawing on the metaphor of a basket as a multilayered metaphor for engaging postsecondary institutions, these essays reveal historical, educational, legal, philosophical, visual and economic frameworks to develop a knowledge protocol that can direct, transform and enrich conventional Humanities within the complex dynamics of territory, energy, stewardship, alterity and consciousness.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/979999662

title: Strategies for Decolonizing Curriculum and Pedagogy
description: A few strategies to consider as you begin to decolonize and indigenize your course or program.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/ctl/decolonization/strategies.html

title: Resources for decolonizing & indigenizing the curriculum
description: This guide includes: books and articles on decolonizing teaching practices, Indigenous education, land based pedagogy, online learning; resources on Haudenosaunee Confederacy - History, worldview, creation story; Web links of Haudenosaunee Communities - Online resources.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/ctl/decolonization/resources.html

title: Decolonizing pedagogy
description: Selected books and articles on decolonization and decolonizing pedagogy, with subsections on literatures and sciences. Part of the <a href="https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/indigenous-fac-res.html" target="_blank">Indigenous Resources for Faculty</a> library guide.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/indigenous-fac-res/decolonizing-pedagogy.html

title: Version simplifiée de la Déclaration des Nations Unies sur les droits des peuples autochtones
description: This collaborative document offers a simplified version of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigneous Peoples (UNDRIP). Adapted from the UNICEF toolkit: “Know Your Rights: UNDRIP for Indigenous Adolescents.”

link: https://www.mikana.ca/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/livret_DNUDPA_web_5Mo.pdf

title: Settlers Take Action
description: Work on learning about your personal role in reconciliation with the Indigenous Peoples of the land now called Canada.
link: https://oncanadaproject.ca/settlerstakeaction

title: Accomplices Not Allies: Abolishing the Ally Industrial Complex
description: An Indigenous perspective and provocation intended to intervene in some of the current tensions around solidarity/support work.
link: https://www.indigenousaction.org/accomplices-not-allies-abolishing-the-ally-industrial-complex/

title: Reading to Decolonize
description: Community reading group with resources and tools for learning more about historical and present day settler-indigenous relations.
link: https://readingtodecolonize.ca/

title: Pulling Together: A BCcampus Guide for Indigenization of Post-Secondary Institutions
description: A set of 6 professional learning guides that are a result of a collaboration between BCcampus, the Ministry of Advanced Education and Skills Training, and a Steering Committee of Indigenous education leaders.
link: https://bccampus.ca/projects/indigenization/indigenization-guides/

title: "C'est le Québec qui est né dans mon pays!": carnet de rencontres, d'Ani Kuni à Kiuna
description: A graphic ”carnet de rencontre” by a settler and Concordia alumnus seeking to take personal responsibility as well as give voice to multiple First Nations, Inuit and Métis collaborators.

link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1248935208

title: Indigenous Directions Action Plan
description: Envisioned as a guide and tool to enable all Concordians to move the University towards a more equitable and inclusive future. It is created, in part, to respond to the Calls to Action of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC).
link: https://www.concordia.ca/indigenous/action-plan.html

title: Workshops and Resources
description: Indigenous awareness training and resources for the community, including <i>Pîkiskwêtân: The Indigenous Learning Series, Indigenous Elder and Community Protocols</i> and a guide to our Territorial Acknowledgment.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/indigenous/resources.html

title: Indigenous Decolonization Hub
description: Indigenous evidence-based research, tools and resources to re-frame your curriculum and pedagogical practices in ways that promote critical discourse, analysis and integration of Indigenous Peoples’ diverse intellectual, cultural, agricultural, and scientific knowledge systems.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/ctl/decolonization.html

title: Indigenous Educational Resources for Faculty and Students
description: A guide is designed to assist faculty at Concordia University in decolonizing and indigenizing the curriculum, with recommended scholarly and community-based resources. Resources include journal articles, books, reports, films, online portals, and more, grouped by theme and subject area.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/indigenous-fac-res.html

title: 
description: 
link: 

title: 
description: 
link: 

title: The Equity Myth: Racialization and Indigeneity at Canadian Universities
description: Comprehensive data-based study of racialized and Indigenous faculty members' experiences in Canadian universities. Challenges the myth of equity in higher education. Drawing on a rich body of survey data, interviews, and analysis of universities' stated policies, leading scholars scrutinize what universities have done and question the effectiveness of their employment equity programs.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/963913483

title: Indigenous Relations: Insights, Tips & Suggestions to make Reconciliation a Reality
description: Hereditary chief and leading Indigenous relations trainer Bob Joseph is your guide to respecting cultural differences and improving your personal relationships and business interactions with Indigenous Peoples. Describes the barriers that Indigenous communities face and the truth behind common myths and stereotypes perpetuated since Confederation.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1088437347

title: Myths, Stereotypes, and Racism
description: This chapter of this online ebook breaks down the myths, stereotypes and racism experienced by Indigenous people today
link: https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationfoundations/chapter/stereotypes/

title: 8 Basic Barriers to Indigenous Employment
description: This blog post details barriers which contribute to increase rates of unemployment amongst Indigenous people in Canada.
link: https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/8-basic-barriers-to-indigenous-employment

title: Indigenous Peoples in Canada
description: This Canadian Encyclopaedia entry discusses the complexity of Indigenous populations within what is now called Canada.
link: https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/aboriginal-people-demography

title: FNIGC Data Online
description: Online service from the First Nations Information Governance Centre (FNIGC), Canada’s premier source of information about First Nations people living on reserve and in northern communities across Canada. Statistical categories to browse include Education, Employment and Income, Health and Well Being.
link: https://fnigc.ca/first-nations-data-centre/data-online/

title: The National Report of the First Nation Regional, Early Childhood, Education and Employment Survey
description: This survey conducted by the First Nations Information Governance Centre (FNIGC). This report presents the National Report of the First Nations Regional Early Childhood, Education and Employment Survey (FNREEES) results that offer a descriptive analysis of the key findings in the areas of early childhood education, education, employment, and labour.
link: https://fnigc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/FNIGC_FNREEES-National-Report-2016-EN_FINAL_01312017.pdf

title: Statistics on Indigenous peoples
description: Census summaries and graphs developed by Statistics Canada based on the latest 2016 Canadian Census.
link: https://www.statcan.gc.ca/en/subjects-start/indigenous_peoples

title: The Aboriginal Labour Force Analysis Series
description: This series of analytical reports provides an overview of the labour market conditions among the Aboriginal off-reserve populations, based on estimates from the Labour Force Survey. These reports examine the Aboriginal labour force characteristics by Aboriginal identity, as well as diverse socio-economic and employment characteristics.
link: https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/en/catalogue/71-588-X

title: Aboriginal Statistics at a Glance: 2nd Edition
description: Aboriginal Statistics at a Glance provides data users with a thematic guide to Aboriginal data at Statistics Canada. Each theme is illustrated with a chart or table presenting key indicators as well as a plain language description of the indicator.
link: https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/pub/89-645-x/89-645-x2015001-eng.htm

title: Aboriginal Peoples Fact Sheets
description: This product is a series of geographic profiles that include provinces and territories as well as the four Inuit regions of Inuit Nunangat. This series presents a summary of characteristics about the Aboriginal population living in these areas. Demographic data and information on living arrangements of children, education, employment, income, housing, health and language are highlighted. Data for each Aboriginal group, as well as data for the non-Aboriginal population, are provided separately for select variables. Findings are based on the 2011 National Household Survey, the 2012 Canadian Community Health Survey, and the 2012 Aboriginal Peoples Survey.
link: https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/en/catalogue/89-656-X

title: Aboriginal Peoples Survey
description: The Aboriginal Peoples Survey (APS) is a national survey on the social and economic conditions of First Nations people living off reserve, Métis and Inuit.
link: https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/en/catalogue/89-653-X

title: Inclusive Futures: Indigenous Engagement in Canada's Workforce
description: This report discusses how to develop more inclusive employment strategies for Indigenous population now and in the future.
link: https://canadacommons-ca.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/artifacts/1420033/inclusive-futures/2034082/

title: Indigenous recruitment and retention: Ideas and best practices from a literature review of academic and organizational sources
description: A discussion paper and literature review discussing the current best practices to dismantling barriers to Indigenous employment and how to recruit and retain employees.
link: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/319968081_Indigenous_recruitment_and_retention_Ideas_and_best_practices_from_a_literature_review_of_academic_and_organizational_sources

title: Many Voices One Mind: a Pathway to Reconciliation
description: Discusses challenges and barriers faced by Indigenous Peoples within public service. Outlines the barriers and the strategy used to address these issues in order to increase indigenous recruitment and retention.
link: https://www.canada.ca/en/government/publicservice/wellness-inclusion-diversity-public-service/diversity-inclusion-public-service/knowledge-circle/many-voices.html

title: Labour Market Research Report: Indigenous Recruitment Guide
description: The Indigenous Recruitment Guide covers the opportunities and challenges facing Indigenous communities today and how these connect with modern recruitment best practices.
link: https://eco.ca/new-reports/indigenous-recruitment-guide/

title: Mapping the Landscape: Indigenous Skills Training and Jobs in Canada
description: Environmental scan of Indigenous peoples in Canada, collating knowledge about the context for Indigenous skills and outlining the relationship between Indigenous peoples and the state.
link: https://ppforum.ca/publications/mapping-the-landscape-indigenous-skills-training-and-jobs-in-canada/

title: Working Together: Indigenous Recruitment and Retention in Remote Canada
description: Identifies challenges and highlights best practices to help employers develop effective recruitment and retention strategies suitable for Northern and remote regions. Discusses the evolving landscape of policy and public opinion surrounding Indigenous recruitment and retention issues in Canada.
link: https://www.conferenceboard.ca/e-library/abstract.aspx?did=10121

title: 
description: 
link: 

title: Canadian Residential Schools & Colonial Institutions Database
description: This database of Residential Schools, Indian Hospitals, and Indian Day Schools in Canada represents an ongoing research project. We now have over 2,000 residential schools, day schools, Indian hospitals, convents, and other colonial institutions where Indigenous children were incarcerated that we are adding to the database. To be updated later 2023.
link: https://www.crscid.com/

title: More Than a Checklist: Meaningful Indigenous Inclusion in Higher Education
description: Drawing on research projects that span the last 10 years, this article celebrates the pockets of success within institutions and identifies areas of challenge to Indigenization that moves away from the tokenized checklist response, that merely tolerates Indigenous knowledge(s), to one where they are embraced as part of the institutional fabric.
link: https://www.cogitatiopress.com/socialinclusion/article/view/436

title: Social and Professional insertion of Indigenous Workers
description: This work is the result of the author's research and several years of experience with Indigenous communities. It is primarily intended for managers and all actors involved in organizations operating in the vicinity of Indigenous communities and territories that hire or wish to hire Indigenous workers. It is also relevant for organizations interested in topics related to the employment of Indigenous workers.
link: https://www.editionsjfd.com/en/shop/social-and-professional-insertion-of-indigenous-workers-11221

title: Working Effectively with Indigenous Peoples
description: Provides readers with opportunities to: better understand the debate on Indigenous Peoples' rights, title and treaties; sift through the rhetoric to find creative solutions to workplace challenges; become familiar with respectfu lterminology and interpersonal communications; learn business reasons for governments and organizations to work respectfully and effectively with Indigenous Peoples.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1056110396

title: Leading from Between: Indigenous Participation and Leadership in the Public Service
description: Comprehensive comparative study of Indigenous public servants in British Columbia and Queensland. This book uses their stories and testimony to explore how Indigenous participation and leadership change the way policies are made. Within this book, Catherine Althaus and Ciaran O'Faircheallaigh challenge the public service sector to work towards a more personalized and responsive bureaucracy.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1136678119

title: Responsible Management: An Indigenous Perspective
description: This chapter explores how indigeneity – Indigenous world views, philosophies, identities and practices can be incorporated in responsible business and management practices using examples from Indigenous firms in Australia, New Zealand and Canada.
link: https://www-elgaronline-com.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/view/edcoll/9781788971959/9781788971959.00025.xml

title: 7 First Nation Worker Retention Strategies
description: Need help with First Nation Worker Retention strategies? Here are 7 First Nation Worker Retention strategies for your consideration.
link: https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/7-first-nation-worker-retention-strategies

title: 5 tips for successful First Nation Recruitment
description: Buidling a First Nation recruitment strategy? Here are 5 tips to consider.
link: https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/5-tips-for-successful-first-nation-recruitment

title: Government of Canada jobs for Indigenous people
description: The Government of Canada's web portal provides information on jobs and training opportunities for Indigenous People. There is also information about current information for indigenous employers.
link: https://www.canada.ca/en/public-service-commission/jobs/services/gc-jobs/jobs-indigenous-people.html

title: Nation Talk
description: NationTalk is Canada’s premier native newswire and employment service that offers Indigenous focused news, press releases, employment, event and tender listings, advertising and original content.
link: https://nationtalk.ca/

title: Ontario Native Women's Association
description: The Ontario Native Women’s Association (ONWA) is a not for profit organization to empower and support all Indigenous women and their families in the province of Ontario through research, advocacy, policy development and programs that focus on local, regional and provincial activities.
link: https://www.onwa.ca/

title: The Ivirtivik Project
description: The Ivirtivik project is an employability and skills development initiative specifically designed to provide services for the Inuit community,
link: http://ivirtivik.org/en/

title: Native Friendship Centre of Montreal
description: The website for the Native Friendship centre of Montreal provides details on their services, including education, training and employment referral for those within the Greater Montreal area (GMA).
link: https://nfcm.org/en/

title: Federal Indian Day School Class Action Official Website
description: Official Website for the Federal Indian Day School Class Action lawsuit
link: https://indiandayschools.com/en/

title: Day School Settlement Agreement Information for Survivors
description: A webpage contain resources and information for Day School Settlement Agreement Survivors, including claims forms, deadlines, healing and wellness resources.
link: https://irshdc.ubc.ca/for-survivors/records-and-research-support/day-school-settlement-agreement-information-for-survivors/

title: Indian Day Schools
description: Indian Residential School History and Dialogue centre webpage on the history of Indian Day Schools.
link: https://irshdc.ubc.ca/learn/indian-day-schools/

title: Indian Day School
description: Blog of Wahéhshon Shiann Whitebean, Concordia graduate and current scholar on the History of Indian Day School Education in Kahnawà:ke.
link: https://shewalksabout.com/day-school/

title: Child-Targeted Assimilation: An Oral History of Indian Day School Education in Kahnawà:ke
description: Wahéhshon Shiann Whitebean's thesis on Indian Day School Education in Kahnawà:ke.
link: https://spectrum.library.concordia.ca/id/eprint/985347/1/Whitebean_MA_S2019.pdf

title: Overcoming Day Schools
description: News article on the history of Kahnawake day school.
link: http://thecitymag.concordia.ca/overcoming-day-schools/

title: 120 years of Indian day schools leave a dark legacy in Kahnawake Mohawk Territory
description: News Article on Indian residential Schools at Kahnawake.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/kahnawake-indian-day-schools-1.5127502

title: Intimate Integration: A History of the Sixties Scoop and the Colonization of Indigenous Kinship
description: Privileging Indigenous voices and experiences, Intimate Integration documents the rise and fall of North American transracial adoption projects, including the Adopt Indian and Métis Project and the Indian Adoption Project. Allyson D. Stevenson argues that the integration of adopted Indian and Métis children mirrored the new direction in post-war Indian policy and welfare services. She illustrates how the removal of Indigenous children from their families and communities took on increasing political and social urgency, contributing to what we now call the "Sixties Scoop."
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1127103378

title: Stolen from our Embrace: The Abduction of First Nations Children and the Restoration of Aboriginal Communities
description: a balance of the most gruesome elements of assimilation: church-run schools, the child welfare system, survivors of sexual abuse, and Fetal Alcohol Syndrome counter-balanced against heroic stories of children who survived, fought back, and found their way home. Harrrowing stories are presented wherever possible in the first person, by Fournier, a journalist, and Cree, a B.C native spokesperson and activist, and a stolen child himself.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/36991867

title: A Generation Removed: The Fostering and Adoption of Indigenous Children in the Postwar World
description: A powerful blend of history and family stories. Examines how government authorities in the post–World War II era removed thousands of American Indian children from their families and placed them in non-Indian foster or adoptive families. By the late 1960s an estimated 25 to 35 percent of Indian children had been separated from their families. These practices undermined Indigenous families and their communities in Canada and Australia as well. Jacobs recounts both the trauma and resilience of Indigenous families as they struggled to reclaim the care of their children, leading to the ICWA in the United States and to national investigations, landmark apologies, and redress in Australia and Canada.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/884725777

title: Sixties Scoop
description: Children’s book that discusses the removal on Indigenous children from their families in what we now call Canada, the reasons behind their removal, their lives in foster care, and the feeling of loss felt by many adoptees as a result of being raised in a non-Indigenous family.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1124964825

title: Sixties Scoop: The Sixties Scoop & Aboriginal Child Welfare
description: This website provides an overview of the Sixties Scoop and the history of Aboriginal child welfare

link: https://indigenousfoundations.arts.ubc.ca/sixties_scoop/

title: Sixties Scoop
description: An overview of the Sixties Scoop from the Canadian Encyclopedia project.
link: https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/sixties-scoop

title: Knowledge Portal
description: A searchable database and related links providing access to a variety of education resources, information sheets, annotated literature reviews, reports, guides, films, booklets, studies, journal articles and presentations all related to Aboriginal children and families in Canada and similar countries.
link: https://fncaringsociety.com/knowledge-portal

title: Sixties Scoop Settlement
description: Official website of the Sixties Scoop class action settlement.
link: https://sixtiesscoopsettlement.info/

title: 
description: 
link: 

title: Missing & Murdered: Finding Cleo
description: In the 1970s, Cleo Nicotine Semaganis, a young Cree girl was taken from her family in the Sixties Scoop. Join the CBC's Connie Walker as she helps a family unravel what happened to their sister.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/radio/findingcleo

title: Sixties Scoop Map
description: The Sixties Scoop Network created a Geographic Information Mapping platform to help 60’s scoop survivors share their stories, visualize their geographical displacements and to collect data on where survivors were taken from and subsequently displaced. This visualization of the data will take the form of a map.
link: https://sixtiesscoop.geoforms.ca/

title: First Nations Holistic Lifelong Learning Model
description: A literature review of First Nations, Inuit and Métis learning processes and concepts identified the following key characteristics of learning from an Indigenous perspective. Also includes <a href=https://education.afn.ca/afntoolkit/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/book_9_lifelong_learning_model-scaled.jpg>learning tree graphic</a> for the model.
link: https://education.afn.ca/afntoolkit/web-modules/plain-talk-9-first-nations-holistic-lifelong-learning-model/introduction-to-the-first-nations-holistic-lifelong-learning-model/

title: Inuit Holistic Lifelong Learning Model
description: Illustrates the linkage between Inuit lifelong learning and community well-being and how it can be used as a framework for measuring lifelong learning success.
link: http://inuuqatigiit.ca/2016/08/inuit-holistic-lifelong-learning-model/

title: Literatures, Communities, and Learning: Conversations with Indigenous Writers
description: Gathers nine conversations with Indigenous writers Tenille Campbell, Warren Cariou, Marilyn Dumont, Daniel Heath Justice, Lee Maracle, Sharron Proulx-Turner, David Alexander Robertson, Richard Van Camp, and Katherena Vermette about the relationship between Indigenous literatures and learning, and how their writing relates to communities.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1134768253

title: Stories in a New Skin: Approaches to Inuit Literature
description: A seminal text that explores these Arctic literary traditions and, in the process, reveals a pathway into Inuit literary criticism. Author Keavy Martin considers writing, storytelling, and performance from a range of genres and historical periods - the classic stories and songs of Inuit oral traditions, life writing, oral histories, and contemporary fiction, poetry and film - and discusses the ways in which these texts constitute an autonomous literary tradition. She draws attention to the interconnection between language, form and context and illustrates the capacity of Inuit writers, singers and storytellers to instruct diverse audiences in the appreciation of Inuit texts.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1078131428

title: Pathways of Remembering and Reocognizing Indigenous Thought in Education: Philosophies of Iethi'nihsténha Ohwentsia'kékha (land)
description: An exploration into some of the shared cross-cultural themes that inform and shape Indigenous thought and Indigenous educational philosophy. These philosophies generate tensions, challenges, and contradictions that can become very tangled and messy when considered within the context of current educational systems that reinforce colonial power relations.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/966404559

title: Nunavik: Inuit-controlled education in Arctic Quebec
description: Documents the development of education from the arrival of the first traders and missionaries in the mid-nineteenth century through the creation of the Kativik School Board and the evaluation of its operations by the Nunavik Education Task Force in the 1990s. Takes a detailed look at the complex debate of the Inuit of Northern Quebec about the purposes, achievements, and failures of the public schools in their communities, the first Inuit-controlled school district in Canada.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/49602881

title: Learning and Teaching Together: Weaving Indigenous Ways of Knowing into Education
description: Across Canada, teachers unfamiliar with Indigenous approaches to learning are seeking ways to respectfully weave Indigenous content into their lessons. This book introduces an indigenist approach to education. It recounts how pre-service teachers immersed in a crosscultural course in British Columbia began to practise Indigenous ways of knowing.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/956556429

title: Native Minds Rising: Exploring Transformative Indigenous Education
description: Presents the research and stories of a new group of Indigenous scholars and practitioners who are researching or participating in the development of Indigenous-based research while working in Indigenous communities.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1142179845

title: Decolonizing and Indigenizing Education in Canada
description: This expansive collection Considers the place of Indigenous epistemologies, knowledges, methodologies, curriculum, and pedagogy and explores the complexities of decolonization and indigenization of post-secondary institutions.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1141255395

title: Weaving Indigenous Education Into Your Practice: A Teacher's Resource Guide
description: This virtual guide comprises a playlist of five video chapters, which illustrate how teachers can weave interviews, videos, and lesson plans from NCCIE.CA into their practices. Elementary and secondary teachers who are new to Indigenous education can use this guide when introducing Indigenous lesson plans into their classrooms and land-based learning
link: https://www.nccie.ca/playlist/weaving-indigenous-education-into-your-practice-a-teachers-resource-guide/

title: Reconciliation Through Indigenous Education
description: This MOOC is a non-credit online course offered by the University of British Columbia through the open education platform edX. This self-paced course is to be completed in the span of six weeks.
link: https://pdce.educ.ubc.ca/reconciliation/

title: Understanding Indigenous Perspectives: A Short History of Indigenous Education in Canada
description: This free course developed by the University of Toronto Ontario Institute for Studies in Education provides a thematic overview of Indigenous education in Canada. Includes sections on <b>pre-contact learning</b>, <b>colonial education</b> and <b>reclaiming education</b>, among others.
link: https://search.studyonline.ca/courses/a-short-history-of-indigenous-education-in-canada-394974

title: Walking Together: First Nations, Métis and Inuit Perspectives in Curriculum
description: Government of Alberta resource. The digital resource Walking Together: First Nations, Métis and Inuit Perspectives in Curriculum was designed to help teachers understand the holistic nature of First Nations, Métis and Inuit ways of knowing; to provide opportunity for Inuit, First Nations and Métis peoples to share their perspectives on topics important to them; and to demonstrate First Nations, Métis and Inuit perspectives in teaching and learning experiences.
link: https://www.learnalberta.ca/content/aswt/#:~:text=The%20digital%20resource%20Walking%20Together,share%20their%20perspectives%20on%20topics

title: Land education: Rethinking Pedagogies of Place from Indigenous, Postcolonial, and Decolonizing Perspectives
description: This important book on Land Education offers critical analysis of the paths forward for education on Indigenous land. This analysis discusses the necessity of centring historical and current contexts of colonization in education on and in relation to land.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/920452871

title: Land-based Education: Embracing the Rhythms of the Earth from an Indigenous Perspective
description: Introduces basic elements of Land-based Education from an Indigenous perspective with a focus on the Woodlands Cree. Discusses four curriculum orientations (Positivist, Constructivist, Critical, and Post-Modern) that are connected to environment-related education so that educators have a springboard from which to ground their practice.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1050870184

title: Resource Library
description: This is a library of resources from the First People's Cultural Council. There are specific resources on language revitalization
link: https://fpcc.ca/resource/area/language/resource_type/program-toolkit/

title: Original Voices
description: This is the hub for all language content organized by CBC Indigenoust to visually represent the diverse and numerous languages that exist across the country.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/originalvoices/

title: Endangered Languages Project
description: This website provides descriptions and resources on endangered Indigenous languages in Canada.
link: https://www.endangeredlanguages.com/lang/country/Canada

title: Aboriginal Languages
description: UBC Library Guide on Aboriginal Languages Resources in Canada.
link: https://concordiauniversity.libguides.com/c.php?g=728739&p=5227462

title: Indigenous Language Revitalization in the Americas
description: Focusing on the Americas, this book explores the history and current state of Indigenous language revitalization across this vast region. Complementary chapters on the USA and Canada, and Latin America and the Caribbean, offer a panoramic view while tracing nuanced trajectories of "top down" (official) and "bottom up" (grass roots) language planning and policy initiatives.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/948511728

title: The Routledge Handbook of Language Revitalization
description: The Routledge Handbook of Language Revitalization is the first comprehensive overview of the language revitalization movement, from the Arctic to the Amazon and across continents.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1019662725

title: Pîkiskwêwin
description: A project that supports training and mentorship for Indigenous storytellers of all ages. Our producers are learning their languages by working with fluent speakers and developing technical skills to record and produce stories in Indigenous languages. The topics they explore are wide ranging--Elders’ teachings, food sovereignty, language loss, teaching languages, identity, living in the bush, cooking, buffalo teachings, romance, Bingo, parenting, leadership, architecture and art. Languages include Dene, Michif, Cree-Montagnais-Naskapi.
link: https://www.pikiskwewin.ca/

title: Office of Community Engagement (OCE)
description: The OCE's mandate is to develop and support meaningful and mutually-beneficial relationships between the University and the diverse communities of Montreal. The <i>Indigenous Community Engagement Coordinator>/i> connects people and communities to resources, and supports initiatives that come from Indigenous faculty members, students or citizens. Her role is to guide the process of collaboration to ensure that expectations are managed and that protocols and community-preferred practices are respected on the path towards addressing inequalities.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/about/community/office.html

title: Pathways toward youth autonomy and fulfilment in a transforming society: Indigenous Youth Stream
description: This six-year collaborative Quebec research project is based on needs identified by Indigenous-led organizations and supports Indigenous-led youth programs. See also the <a href="https://www.concordia.ca/news/stories/2018/12/14/concordia-professor-receives-1-1m-for-collaborative-research-with-indigenous-led-youth-programs.html" target="_blank">Concordia news story</a> announcing the project.
link: http://www.chairejeunesse.ca/jeunes-autochtones

title: Initiative for Indigenous Futures
description: A partnership of universities and community organizations dedicated to developing multiple visions of Indigenous peoples tomorrow in order to better understand where we need to go today. Through its four main components –workshops, residencies, symposia, and archive– IIF encourages and enable artists, academics, youth and elders to imagine how our communities will look in the future.
link: https://indigenousfutures.net/

title: Concordia Indigenous Directions and Action Plan
description: This hub is a gathering place for Indigenous resources --such as the <a href="https://www.concordia.ca/indigenous/action-plan.html" target="_blank"><b>Indigenous Directions Action Plan</b></a>-- courses, research, and projects within Concordia University and beyond.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/indigenous.html

title: First Voices Week
description: An Indigenous-led series of political, social, academic and cultural events. Building bridges between Indigenous and non-Indigenous communities by acknowledging and celebrating Indigenous diversity on Turtle Island.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/students/otsenhakta/events/first-voices-week.html

title: Rock Your Mocks
description: An annual week-long campaign during that promotes cultural pride by encouraging Indigenous peoples to share their stories through posting photos of their moccasins. Join the social media Concordia celebration using #CUrockyourmocs and the <a href="https://rockyourmocs.org/" target="_blank">worldwide celebration</a> using #RockYourMocs.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/indigenous/stories/events/rock-your-mocs.html

title: Concordia's First Peoples' Studies Subject Guide
description: This resource provides links to Concordia University's Indigenous focused subject guides.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/first-peoples-studies.html

title: 
description: 
link: 

title: La boite à outils décoloniale: Parcours éducatif
description: Le fruit d’une collaboration entre le Bureau de l’engagement communautaire, Mikana et le RÉSEAU de la communauté autochtone à Montréal. Offre au public un parcours d'autoformation pour comprendre les réalités historiques et contemporaines des Peuples autochtones. Rassemble des ressources soigneusement sélectionnées, produites par des personnes ou organisations autochtones, qui sont accessibles et promeuvent les expertises autochtones. Utilisez notre <a href="https://www.zotero.org/groups/4743100/decolonial_toolbox_resources_for_the_concordia_community/items/ZLMWX5XU/item-list" target="_blank"><b>LISTE DE LECTURES ZOTERO</b></a> pour créer des bibliographies prêtes à l'emploi basées sur les ressources de la boîte à outils.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/fr/a-propos/engagement-communautaire/bureau/projets/boite-a-outils-decoloniale.html

title: Livret «Tu n'as pas l'air autochtone!» et autres préjugés
description: Ce livret s’attaque à 10 des stéréotypes les plus répandus sur les peuples et communautés autochtones.

Second description: Highlights and breaks apart 10 stereotypes about Indigenous peoples in what is now called Canada.
link: https://amnistie.ca/sinformer/2020/canada/livret-tu-nas-pas-lair-autochtone-et-autres-prejuges

title: Livret «Tu n'as pas l'air autochtone!» et autres préjugés
description: Highlights and breaks apart 10 stereotypes about Indigenous peoples in what is now called Canada.
link: https://amnistie.ca/sinformer/2020/canada/livret-tu-nas-pas-lair-autochtone-et-autres-prejuges

title: Trousse à outils pour mieux agir en matière de justice autochtone
description: Préparée par un groupe d’étudiants autochtones et colonisateurs du Comité Droit Autochtone de l’Université de Montréal, cette trousse comprend de l’information de base et des infographies sur les stéréotypes, le racisme, la Loi sur les Indiens, les réserves, la justice et la Déclaration des Nations Unies sur les droits des peuples autochtones.
link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KrUZkkp8UUNolodV6HYJ3aQSAgUtIJ9r/view?fbclid=IwAR0mtjTAvqyiguVryl9hDUtVL8mrfnAF2gkHAmZUSuNptzgxYHe7s4eDS_s

title: Native Land - Carte interactive des territoires, des traités et des langues des terres autochtones
description: Native Land Digital s’efforce d’ouvrir et de favoriser les discussions sur l’histoire du colonialisme, les modes de connaissance autochtones et les relations entre colonisateurs et Autochtones à l’aide de ressources telles qu’une carte et un guide sur la reconnaissance territoriale. Pour certaines personnes, il peut s’agir d’une première prise de conscience de la profondeur, de l’ampleur et de la complexité de l’histoire des Autochtones au pays, et l’organisme espère que cela les incitera à explorer et à comprendre davantage l’histoire du colonialisme.
link: https://native-land.ca/?lang=fr

title: Chelsea Vowel's Indigenous Issues 101 (blogue en anglais)
description: Chelsea Vowel, autrice, militante et chercheuse en droit métisse de manitow-sâkahikan, considère ses billets de blogue comme des « abécédaires des questions autochtones ». Les billets sont regroupés sous plusieurs catégories, comme Mythes ou méprises, Identité et culture, Lois et traités et Injustices passées et présentes.
link: https://apihtawikosisan.com/aboriginal-issue-primers/

title: Myths, Stereotypes and Racism (en anglais)
description: Un outil d’autoévaluation tiré du guide Pulling Together: A guide for Indigenization of post-secondary institutions.
link: https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationfoundations/chapter/stereotypes/

title: Returning to Ceremony: Spirituality in Manitoba Métis Communities
description: Returning to Ceremony is the follow-up to Chantal Fiola's award-winning Rekindling the Sacred Fire and continues her ground-breaking examination of Métis spirituality, debunking stereotypes such as "all Métis people are Catholic," and "Métis people do not go to ceremonies." Fiola finds that, among the Métis, spirituality exists on a continuum of Indigenous and Christian traditions, and that Métis spirituality includes ceremonies.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1246183917

title: The Arts of Indigenous Health and Well-being
description: In this interdisciplinary collection, Indigenous knowledges inform an approach to health as a wider set of relations that are central to well-being, wherein artistic expression furthers cultural continuity and resilience, community connection, and kinship to push back against forces of fracture and disruption imposed by colonialism. The need for healing individuals, and health systems, is clear.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1246318278

title: Therapeutic Nations: Healing in an Age of Indigenous Human Rights
description: Therapeutic Nations" is the first book to demonstrate affect and trauma’s wide-ranging historical origins in an Indigenous setting, offering insights into community healing programs. The author’s theoretical sophistication and original research make the book relevant across a range of disciplines as it challenges key concepts of American Indian and Indigenous studies.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/855906035

title: Facing the Mountain: Indigenous Healing in the Shadow of Colonialism
description: Indigenous healing and decolonization. Nowhere in the texts on counselling, recovery, or lifespan development does it make links between well-being and not having your land stolen. Richardson goes beyond offering social analysis, and possible pathways toward healing, and shares her own experience as an Indigenous woman with Metis, Cree and Gwichin heritage.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1232238341

title: Unreserved: How traditional food is helping Indigenous patients heal at Alaskan hospital
description: Hosted by Rosanna Deerchild. Discussing the Alaska Native Medical Center's use of traditional Indigenous foods to bring comfort to Indigenous patients.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/listen/live-radio/1-105-unreserved/clip/15891994-how-traditional-food-helping-indigenous-patients-heal-alaskan

title: Healing The Land IS Healing Ourselves
description: Discussion with Diné woman Kim Smith about her work to heal her land as a form of decolonization, self-healing, and resilience.
link: https://www.allmyrelationspodcast.com/podcast/episode/4bb3fff4/healing-the-land-is-healing-ourselves

title: The Ancestors Know You: Real Life Reconnection Stories
description: This episode shares the stories of how two Indigenous people reconnected with their communities.
link: https://www.allmyrelationspodcast.com/podcast/episode/4b34fbb7/the-ancestors-know-you-real-life-reconnection-stories

title: Taking the Measure of Data on Indigenous Peoples
description: Dr. Jennifer Walker discusses Indigenous peoples and their relationship to data, including harmful colonial health stats taking.
link: https://mediaindigena.libsyn.com/ep-179-taking-the-measure-of-data-on-indigenous-peoples

title: Auntie Up!
description: A 10-part podcast of "unfiltered conversation into the Indigenous world view -- or at least the Auntie world view". Produced by Tanya Talaga, Jolene Banner and Kim Wheeler with different guest hosts each episode, the series looks at “what is important to Indigenous women on Turtle Island, while also incorporating current events and how we relate to them.”
link: https://makwacreative.ca/auntie-up

title: Écrits autochtones : comprendre les enjeux des Premières Nations, des Métis et des Inuit au Canada
description: Prônant les visions du monde autochtones, l’autrice aborde des questions fondamentales (le vocabulaire des relations, la culture et l’identité, l’éclatement des mythes, la violence étatique ainsi que le territoire, l’éducation, les droits et les traités) ainsi que les principales idées reçues de la société envers ces questions.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1256660492

title: L'Indien malcommode: un portrait inattendu des Autochtones d'Amérique du Nord
description: Cet ouvrage examine comment la perception, la compréhension, la représentation des Autochtones et la propagande dont ils ont fait l’objet ont évolué en Amérique du Nord. Il revisite les anciens récits sur les événements et personnages historiques, jette un regard oblique sur le cinéma et la culture populaire et exprime une compréhension profonde et radicale des effets cumulatifs de l’évolution constante des lois et des traités sur les peuples autochtones et leurs terres.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/884544014

title: Indigenous Canada (cours en anglais seulement)
description: Ce cours en ligne populaire est offert par l’Université de l’Alberta. Il couvre les questions touchant les peuples autochtones depuis la fondation du territoire aujourd’hui appelé Canada.
link: https://www.ualberta.ca/admissions-programs/online-courses/indigenous-canada/index.html

title: Our Stories: First Peoples in Canada (manuel en anglais seulement)
description: Il s’agit d’un manuel complémentaire du programme de certificat d’études autochtones sur les premiers peuples au Canada du Collège Centennial. Ce manuel est offert à toute personne qui souhaite en apprendre davantage sur l’histoire des peuples autochtones originaires du territoire aujourd’hui appelé Canada. Le Collège met le manuel à la disposition du public et remercie toutes les personnes qui ont raconté leur histoire.
link: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/indigstudies/#navigation

title: Espace des savoirs
description: Collaboration entre le Centre national de collaboration en éducation autochtone et l’Université des Premières Nations du Canada, cette vaste collection de vidéos vise à sensibiliser les gens à l’importance des savoirs autochtones dans le monde d’aujourd’hui. Elle couvre les sujets tels que les protocoles, l’apprentissage expérientiel, les savoirs autochtones ainsi que la terre, la langue et la culture. En particulier, les sections <a href="https://www.nccie.ca/knowledge-space/elder-knowledge/?lang=fr" target="_blank">Écoutez les aînés</a> et <a href="https://www.nccie.ca/knowledge-space/indigenous-governance/?lang=fr" target="_blank">Gouvernance autochtone</a> sont à consulter.

Second description: Cette vaste collection de vidéos vise à sensibiliser les gens à l’importance des savoirs autochtones dans le monde d’aujourd’hui.
link: https://www.nccie.ca/knowledge-space/?lang=fr

title: La réconciliation passe par l’éducation
description: Vous trouverez ici des documents et des ressources expliquant l’histoire et la création des pensionnats autochtones, les séquelles de ce système – qui perdurent encore aujourd’hui – et la mesure dans laquelle ce système a façonné le pays dans lequel on vit.
link: https://nctr.ca/education-fr/?lang=fr

title: Mikana
description: Ces outils et ressources sont recommandés par Mikana, un organisme autochtone local sans but lucratif qui œuvre pour le changement social par l’éducation.
link: 

title: Resources for Educators, Students and Families
description: (en anglais) Ce site propose de nombreuses ressources et recommandations concernant les changements à apporter dans les établissements d’enseignement et autres institutions pour garantir justice et équité aux peuples autochtones du Québec et du Canada.
link: https://fppse.net/resources/

title: Yellowhead Institute
description: Cet institut de recherche universitaire dirigé par des Autochtones s’intéresse en priorité aux perspectives autochtones sur les politiques concernant les terres et la gouvernance des Premières Nations. Il vise à encourager l’éducation et le dialogue, dans les différents domaines d’études, entre le milieu universitaire et la population et entre les peuples autochtones et l’ensemble des Canadiens.
link: https://yellowheadinstitute.org/

title: It’s Our Time: The AFN Education Toolkit
description: L’Assemblée des Premières Nations a créé cette trousse d’outils afin de consolider les apprentissages sur les questions autochtones et de favoriser l’alliance inclusive (trousse en anglais seulement).
link: https://education.afn.ca/afntoolkit/

title: Documents et rapport final
description: Le rapport de la « Commission Viens » fait état du racisme systémique et des mauvais traitements dont font l’objet les Autochtones dans les services de santé et autres services publics, et propose des mesures précises pour mettre fin à cette situation.
link: https://www.cerp.gouv.qc.ca/index.php?id=2

title: Réclamer notre pouvoir et notre place : le rapport final de l’Enquête nationale sur les femmes et les filles autochtones disparues et assassinées
description: En plus de ce sommaire, vous trouverez le rapport complet, les rapports complémentaires (y compris celui propre au Québec et le rapport supplémentaire sur le terme « génocide »), les transcriptions et plus encore dans le guide <a href="https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/first-peoples-studies/guide-to-missing-and-murdered-indigenous-women-and-girls-inquiry.html">Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls Inquiry de la Bibliothèque de Concordia.</a>
link: https://www.mmiwg-ffada.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/Rapport-compl%C3%A9mentaire_Qu%C3%A9bec.pdf

title: Honorer la vérité, réconcilier pour l'avenir : sommaire du rapport final de la commission de vérité et réconciliation du Canada
description: Outre ce sommaire de la Commission de vérité et réconciliation, présidée par l’honorable Murray Sinclair, vous trouverez les six volumes ainsi que de nombreux rapports et articles connexes dans le guide <a href="https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/first-peoples-studies/truth-and-reconciliation-commission-of-canada--trc-.html">Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada de Concordia.</a>
link: https://publications.gc.ca/site/eng/9.814357/publication.html

title: QTC Final Report: Achieving Saimaqatigiingniq
description: (en anglais) « Depuis de nombreuses années, les aînés de la région du Qikiqtani (Baffin) éprouvent un profond sentiment de perte lorsqu’ils se remémorent les bouleversements qu’ils ont connus depuis les années 1950. Les rapports thématiques et études spéciales qui composent cette collection explorent les thèmes qui se sont dégagés des travaux de la Commission de vérité du Qikiqtani. L’enquête, dont le mandat premier consistait à examiner l’abattage des chiens de traîneau, a vite pris de l’ampleur pour inclure les autres effets profonds et douloureux des politiques coloniales. »
link: https://www.qtcommission.ca/sites/default/files/public/thematic_reports/thematic_reports_english_final_report.pdf

title: Rapport de la Commission royale sur les peuples autochtones
description: Cette Commission royale a été constituée en 1991 à la suite de la résistance de Kanesatake (la 'crise d’Oka'). Son rapport en cinq volumes – résultat de recherches approfondies et de consultations communautaires – brosse le portrait des relations passées et présentes entre les Autochtones et Allochtones du Canada. La Commission y fait plusieurs recommandations, dont la plupart n’ont pas encore été mises en œuvre.
link: https://www.bac-lac.gc.ca/fra/decouvrez/patrimoine-autochtone/commission-royale-peuples-autochtones/Pages/rapport.aspx

title: Parole autochtone avec Melissa Mollen Dupuis
description: Cette série de balados est animée par Melissa Mollen Dupuis, cinéaste militante et membre de la communauté des Innus de Ekuanitshit. Elle aborde divers sujets tels que l’alliance inclusive, la réconciliation, la terminologie, les politiques et la culture.
link: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/espaces-autochtones/1769529/parole-autochtone

title: Laissez-nous raconter: L’histoire crochie
description: Notre histoire collective a été écrite d'un point de vue eurocentriste et colonialiste. Ici, les Premiers Peuples reprennent le bâton de parole pour raconter leur vision de l'histoire. La poétesse innue Marie-Andrée Gill redresse 11 mots lourds de sens pour nos peuples afin de réconcilier le passé et le présent.
link: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/ohdio/balados/7628/autochtones-traditions-communautes-langue-territoire

title: Tipatshimun: L'histoire orale à l'ère numérique
description: Les épisodes de ce balado sont le résultat d'un projet pilote qui a permis à dix participants innus en provenance de différentes communautés du Saguenay et de la Côte-Nord de réaliser et de diffuser leurs propres émissions originales selon des thèmes propres à leur univers, et plus particulièrement à la langue et à la culture innue.
link: https://socam.net/tipatshimun

title: Ça s’est passé ainsi
description: Ce balado présente des contes traditionnels autochtones, transmis de génération en génération et ancrés dans le présent par les conteurs.
link: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/ohdio/balados/7605/contes-autochtones-nature-traditions-transmission

title: Pionnières
description: Chaque épisode de ce balado trace le portrait d'une pionnière autochtone et d'une jeune femme qui marche sur ses traces. En compagnie de l'animatrice Widia Larivière, elles discutent des défis qu’elles doivent relever en tant que pionnières dans leur domaine ainsi que des problèmes actuels qui caractérisent leurs luttes.
link: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/ohdio/balados/8391/pionnieres

title: Kuei! Kwe!
description: L’animatrice Melissa Mollen Dupuis met en valeur le talent et la vitalité des Premières Nations, des Inuits et des Métis. En compagnie de ses invités, elle aborde un éventail de sujets liés aux Autochtones du Québec et du Canada.
link: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/ohdio/premiere/emissions/8446/kuei-kwe?pageNumber=2

title: Media Indigena (en anglais)
description: Dans ce balado, Rick Harp analyse d’un œil critique les actualités autochtones et leur couverture médiatique. Les spécialistes Kim TallBear, Candis Callison, Brock Pitawanakwat, Ken Williams et Trina Roache participent régulièrement à ses tables rondes.
link: https://podcasts.apple.com/ca/podcast/media-indigena-indigenous-current-affairs/id1092220986

title: Unreserved (en anglais)
description: Dans cette émission de CBC Radio, Rosanna Deerchild reçoit des invités de diverses communautés autochtones, avec qui elle discute de différents sujets touchant les Autochtones du territoire aujourd’hui appelé Canada.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/radio/unreserved

title: Auntie Up! (en anglais)
description: Un balado en 10 épisodes de conversations non filtrées sur la vision du monde autochtone - ou du moins la vision du monde des “Aunties”. Produite par Tanya Talaga, Jolene Banner et Kim Wheeler, avec des hôtes invités différents à chaque épisode, la série se penche sur ce qui est important pour les femmes autochtones de Turtle Island, tout en intégrant les événements actuels et notre place dans tout cela.
link: https://makwacreative.ca/auntie-up

title: Warrior Life (en anglais)
description: Ce balado animé par Pam Palmater encourage les auditeurs à décoloniser leurs opinions et leur mode de vie, et célèbre les traditions et cultures autochtones. Les épisodes consistent en des discussions approfondies avec des militants, des artistes et des pionniers des Premières Nations, Inuits et Métis.
link: https://soundcloud.com/pampalmater

title: APTN News Podcasts (en anglais)
description: Les balados basés sur les émissions d’actualités <b>InFocus</b>, <b>Face to Face</b>, <b>Nation to Nation</b> et <b>APTN Investigates</b> sont à écouter, en particulier.

link: https://www.aptnnews.ca/podcasts/

title: The Secret Life of Canada (en anglais)
description: Ce balado de CBC, animé par Leah-Simone Bowen et Falen Johnson, s’intéresse aux sujets qui ont été écartés de l’histoire dominante du territoire aujourd’hui appelé Canada.
link: https://www.cbc.ca/radio/secretlifeofcanada

title: Décoloniser l'histoire
description: Cette émission présente dix chapitres méconnus de l’histoire du point de vue des personnes autochtones et racisées. En particulier, les épisodes 1, 3, 6, 8 et 10 sont à voir.
link: https://video.telequebec.tv/details/38704-decoloniser-lhistoire

title: Où sont tes plumes
description: Deux duos de sœurs partagent avec humour leurs expériences et leur point de vue sur les préjugés envers les Premières Nations.
link: https://vimeo.com/135614613

title: Parole autochtone
description: Cette série de vidéos est animée par Melissa Mollen Dupuis, cinéaste militante et membre de la communauté des Innus de Ekuanitshit. Elle aborde divers sujets tels que l’alliance inclusive, la réconciliation, la terminologie, l’histoire, la politique et la culture.
link: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/espaces-autochtones/parole-autochtone-avec-melissa-mollen-dupuis

title: Briser le code: le lexique en vidéo
description: Ces brèves capsules vidéo visent à démystifier plusieurs termes, comme l’appropriation culturelle et les biais inconscients, et le lexique de base relatif aux peuples et aux questions autochtones.
link: https://briserlecode.telequebec.tv/LeLexique

title: Hollywood et les indiens
description: Dans ce long métrage documentaire, le cinéaste cri Neil Diamond jette un regard à la fois divertissant et perspicace sur l’évolution de la représentation des Premières Nations à travers un siècle de cinéma.
link: https://www-onf-ca.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/film/hollywood_et_les_indiens/

title: I’m not the Indian you had in mind (en anglais)
description: Basée sur un poème de Thomas King, cette courte vidéo remet en question la façon dont les Premières Nations sont représentées dans les médias.
link: https://vimeo.com/39451956

title: Understanding Aboriginal Identity (en anglais)
description: Cette vidéo se penche sur la question complexe de l’auto-identification chez les peuples autochtones. Aujourd’hui, l’identité autochtone demeure inextricablement liée à la législation gouvernementale passée et à la représentation stéréotypée des Autochtones dans les médias et l’histoire du Canada.
link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IcSnbXmJ9V0

title: Colonization Road (en anglais)
description: L’humoriste et journaliste Ryan McMahon parcourt les chemins de la colonisation en Ontario afin de comprendre ses conséquences sur les Premières Nations et les colonisateurs.
link: https://gem.cbc.ca/media/firsthand/s02e09

title: "C'est le Québec qui est né dans mon pays!": carnet de rencontres, d'Ani Kuni à Kiuna
description: Cette bande dessinée est un carnet de rencontres créé par une allochtone et ancienne étudiante de Concordia afin de reconnaître sa propre responsabilité et de donner une voix à de nombreux collaborateurs des Premières Nations, Inuits et Métis.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1248935208

title: Décoloniser le Canada: cinquante ans de militantisme autochtone
description: Ensemble, les deux auteurs – un intellectuel militant de la Nation Secwepemc et un homme d’affaires de la Nation Syilx (Okanagan) – proposent de nouvelles idées et posent un regard neuf sur la plus importante question non réglée du Canada : la place des Autochtones dans l’espace politique et économique du pays. Ils présentent un plan pour une nouvelle économie autochtone durable ainsi qu’une feuille de route pour y arriver.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1053839134

title: Kuei, je te salue: conversation sur le racisme
description: Ce livre fait état de la correspondance entre la poète innue bien connue Natasha Kanapé Fontaine et le romancier québéco-américain Deni Ellis Béchard. D’abord publié en 2016, ce livre a été revu en 2021. La plus récente édition comprend des lettres écrites pendant la période ayant suivi le meurtre de George Floyd et la mobilisation du mouvement Black Lives Matter, mais aussi après le décès de Joyce Echaquan sous les injures racistes à l’hôpital de Joliette.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1237278519

title: Indigenous Relations: Insights, Tips & Suggestions to make Reconciliation a Reality
description: (ouvrage en anglais) Chef héréditaire et formateur chevronné en matière de relations avec les Autochtones, Bob Joseph vous donne des conseils pour mieux respecter les différences culturelles et améliorer vos relations personnelles et professionnelles avec les Autochtones. Il décrit les obstacles que les communautés autochtones doivent surmonter et fait éclater les principaux mythes et stéréotypes véhiculés depuis la Confédération.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1088437347

title: Settler: Identity and Colonialism in 21st Century Canada
description: (ouvrage en anglais) Être un colonisateur signifie comprendre qu’il existe un lien très étroit entre le Canada et la violence du colonialisme qui façonne encore aujourd’hui la vie politique, économique et culturelle. Cela signifie également accepter notre devoir de lutter pour le changement. Ce livre propose des façons de décoloniser les relations afin de trouver de nouvelles façons d’occuper les terres ensemble.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/909975246

title: Unsettling the Settler Within: Indian Residential Schools, Truth Telling, and Reconciliation in Canada
description: (ouvrage en anglais) Dans ce livre, l’autrice propose comme argument principal que les allochtones canadiens doivent entreprendre leur propre processus de décolonisation afin de saisir pleinement les possibilités transformatrices de la réconciliation. Les colonisateurs doivent se défaire du mythe persistant selon lequel ils sont les artisans de la paix au pays et reconnaître l’héritage destructeur d’une société qui s’est entêtée à ignorer et à dénigrer l’expérience autochtone.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/650442744

title: Version simplifiée de la Déclaration des Nations Unies sur les droits des peuples autochtones
description: Produit en collaboration par Mikana, Amnistie internationale Canada et la Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse, ce document vise à rendre plus accessible le texte complexe de la Déclaration des Nations Unies sur les droits des peuples autochtones. Il s’adresse entre autres aux jeunes, aux communautés autochtones et aux universitaires.
link: https://www.mikana.ca/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/livret_DNUDPA_web_5Mo.pdf

title: Trousse d’outils pour les alliées aux luttes autochtones
description: Produite par le RÉSEAU de la communauté autochtone à Montréal, cette trousse décrit les compétences que les colonisateurs blancs devraient acquérir pour devenir culturellement compétents et soutenir les peuples autochtones.
link: https://rcentres.qc.ca/2019/01/24/trousse-pour-alliees-aux-luttes-autochtones/

title: Plan d'action contre le racisme et la discrimination
description: Ce plan d’action a été préparé par l’Assemblée des Premières Nations du Québec-Labrador. En particulier, la section Comment s’engager (page 8) est à consulter.
link: https://www.itum.qc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/PLAN-ACTION-RACISME-ET-DISCRIMINATION_VF.pdf

title: Settlers Take Action (en anglais)
description: Découvrez le rôle que vous pouvez jouer dans la réconciliation avec les peuples autochtones du territoire aujourd’hui appelé Canada.
link: https://oncanadaproject.ca/settlerstakeaction

title: Indigenous cultural competency self-assessment checklist (en anglais)
description: Cette ressource vous aidera à déterminer votre degré de compétence culturelle et les points que vous devez améliorer.
link: https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/indigenous-cultural-competency-self-assessment-checklist

title: What is Indigenous Cultural Safety—and Why Should I Care About It? (en anglais)
description: Cet article explique le concept de sécurité culturelle et le vocabulaire qui s’y rapporte.
link: https://www.heretohelp.bc.ca/visions/indigenous-people-vol11/what-indigenous-cultural-safety-and-why-should-i-care-about-it

title: Reading to Decolonize (en anglais)
description: (cessé en 2020?) Ce groupe de lecture propose des ressources et des outils pour en apprendre davantage sur les relations passées et présentes entre Autochtones et colonisateurs.
link: https://readingtodecolonize.ca/about/

title: Le balado oser s'en parler
description: Ce balado indépendant vise à déconstruire le malaise et l’inertie des colonisateurs tout en amplifiant les voix autochtones. Voici les titres de quelques épisodes : Nos traités, nos relations, Le faux dilemme entre tradition et modernité, Aller au-delà des clichés et Marginalisation calculée.
link: https://www.osersenparler.ca/podcast/

title: Voies Parallèles
description: Ce balado vise à outiller les personnes qui souhaitent bâtir un Québec plus juste en prenant des mesures décisives vers la réconciliation et les réparations. Kijâtai, une membre de la Nation Anishinabé, et Laurence, une colonisatrice blanche, discutent des réalités des communautés autochtones avec leurs invités et rêvent ensemble de réparer les injustices.
link: https://podcasts.apple.com/ca/podcast/voies-parall%C3%A8les/id1581268884

title: 
description: 
link: 

title: Protocoles des arts autochtones
description: 
link: https://youtu.be/b9ZVAHOIMek

title: Aide-mémoire sur la collaboration avec les créatrices et créateurs autochtones
description: Le fruit d’une collaboration entre Mikana et le Service de la Culture de la Ville de Montréal afin de de les accompagner dans la création et la redéfinition de leurs programmes et initiatives pour les créatrices et créateurs autochtones.. Vous pourrez en apprendre plus sur les meilleures pratiques en matière de collaboration, de mise en valeur des cultures autochtones, de développement de projets culturels et bien plus encore. Une ressource primordiale pour toutes personnes allochtones œuvrant dans le milieu culturel.
link: https://www.mikana.ca/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Mikana_Aide-memoire_web.pdf

title: Protocoles et Chemins Cinématographiques: Un guide de production médiatique pour la collaboration avec les communautés, cultures, concepts et histoires de peuples des Premieres nations, Metis, et Inuit
description: À l’aide de principes culturels, des principales conclusions d’un processus de consultation pancanadien et de pratiques exemplaires, ce guide explique aux cinéastes, aux maisons de production et aux bailleurs de fonds comment présenter le contenu autochtone à l’écran et comment les communautés peuvent devenir des partenaires.
link: https://imaginenative.org/year-round/publications/

title: Ressources – Cultures autochtones
description: Un ensemble de ressources répertoriées par le Regroupement des arts interdisciplinaire du Québec à l’intention des artistes autochtones et à l’intention des artistes non-autochtones qui souhaitent s’éduquer sur les enjeux d’intérêt pour les communautés et artistes autochtones et sur notre histoire partagée.
link: https://raiq.ca/activites/ressources-cultures-autochtones/

title: Kuessipan: au-delà des clichés, avec Myriam Verreault
description: Cet épisode du balado Oser s’en parler pose la question suivante : comment s’assurer que nos « bonnes intentions » sont respectueuses? L’animatrice s’entretient avec Myriam Verreault, coscénariste et réalisatrice du film Kuessipan, sur le processus de collaboration interculturelle qui a entouré ce film basé sur le roman de l’autrice innue Naomi Fontaine.
link: https://www.osersenparler.ca/ep-8-kuessipan-collaborer-respectueusement/

title: Protocole sur l’éducation des Autochtones pour les collèges et instituts
description: Basé sur sept principes directeurs, ce document met en exergue l’importance des structures et des approches nécessaires pour répondre aux besoins en éducation des peuples autochtones et pour appuyer l’autodétermination et le développement socioéconomique des communautés autochtones.
link: https://www.collegesinstitutes.ca/fr/les-enjeux/apprenants-autochtones/modes-dapproche-et-pratiques-exemplaires-pour-appliquer-les-principes-directeurs/

title: Co-exister pour apprendre
description: Cette initiative du Cégep de l’Outaouais vise à encourager les établissements postsecondaires à favoriser la sécurité culturelle ainsi qu’à décoloniser et à autochtoniser leurs programmes.
link: https://reconciliation.csimple.org/accueil

title: Indigenous Elder and Community Protocols
description: Ce guide à l’intention des membres du personnel, du corps professoral et du corps étudiant suggère des pratiques exemplaires à adopter pour interagir et collaborer avec les aînés et les membres des communautés autochtones.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/indigenous/resources/elder.html

title: Working Effectively with Indigenous Peoples®
description: Ce blogue est animé par Bob Joseph, auteur, consultant et membre de la Nation Gwawaenuk. En particulier, consultez les articles <a href="https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/7-tips-on-building-relationships-with-indigenous-peoples" target="_blank">7 Tips on Building Relationships with Indigenous Peoples</a> et la section <a href="https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/topic/indigenous-protocol" target="_blank">Indigenous Protocol relatifs à la reconnaissance territoriale</a>, aux aînés, au bâton de parole, au potlatch et au tourisme.
link: https://www.ictinc.ca/blog

title: Engaging with Indigenous Communities
description: Bien qu’il fasse partie du manuel <a href="https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationcurriculumdevelopers/" target="_blank">Pulling Together</a>, destiné aux responsables de l’élaboration de programmes d’études postsecondaires, ce chapitre est également pertinent pour le secteur communautaire, car il comprend des sections sur <a href="https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationcurriculumdevelopers/chapter/respecting-protocols/" target="_blank">le respect des protocoles</a>, <a href="https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationcurriculumdevelopers/chapter/building-relationships/" target="_blank">l’établissement de relations</a> et <a href="https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationcurriculumdevelopers/chapter/learning-from-mistakes/" target="_blank">l’apprentissage par l’erreur</a>.
link: https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationcurriculumdevelopers/part/section-3/

title: Mikana
description: Fondé en 2015, Mikana, qui signifie chemin en langue Anishinabe, est un organisme autochtone sans but lucratif qui a pour mission d’œuvrer au changement social en sensibilisant différents publics sur les réalités et perspectives des peuples autochtones. Cette initiative résulte d’une réflexion d’agir concrètement contre le racisme et la discrimination envers les peuples autochtones et contribue à briser les barrières entre le monde autochtone et le monde allochtone.
link: https://www.mikana.ca/

title: RÉSEAU de la communauté autochtone a Montréal
description: Fondé en 2008 sous le nom de Réseau pour la stratégie urbaine de la communauté autochtone de Montréal, l’organisme s’est depuis radicalement transformé. Depuis sa constitution en société en 2019, le RÉSEAU de la communauté autochtone à Montréal offre un appui clé à l’écosystème de personnes et de groupes déterminés à améliorer la qualité de vie des membres des Premières Nations, des Inuits et des Métis qui habitent dans la région du grand Montréal.
link: https://reseaumtlnetwork.com/

title: Idle No More Québec (sur Facebook)
description: Branche québécoise du mouvement national autochtone pacifique « <a href="https://idlenomore.ca/" target="_blank">Idle No More</a> » (Fini l'inertie). Fondé en 2012 par quatre femmes (trois Autochtones et une allochtone) du Manitoba, de la Saskatchewan et de l’Alberta, ce mouvement social « s’est rapidement transformé en un réseau transcontinental inclusif d’Autochtones issus des milieux urbains et ruraux travaillant main dans la main avec des alliés non autochtones à la promotion des droits des Autochtones et à la protection des terres, de l’eau et du ciel ».
link: https://www.facebook.com/IdleNoMoreQuebec/

title: UQAT : l’importance des liens avec les communautés
description: Ce guide résume les réalisations de l’Université du Québec en Abitibi-Témiscamingue (UQAT) dans les domaines de l’accessibilité des étudiants et étudiantes des Premières Nations à l’éducation postsecondaire et de la collaboration active avec les communautés autochtones. Vous trouverez aussi une description du Pavillon des Premiers-Peuples de l’UQAT à Val-d’Or dans cette <a href="https://concordiauniversity.libguides.com/%E2%80%9Dhttps://www.uqat.ca/telechargements/autochtone/UQAT_brochure_FR_web.pdf%E2%80%9D" target="_blank">brochure</a>.
link: https://www.capres.ca/dossiers/etudiants-des-premiers-peuples-en-enseignement-superieur-dossier-capres/uqat-limportance-des-liens-avec-les-communautes/

title: Cercle Kisis
description: Fondé par Alexandre Bacon, Innu de Mashteuiatsh, en 2014 l’organisme « oeuvre au rapprochement entre les peuples et au rayonnement des cultures, des arts et des patrimoines autochtones ». Suivez-le sur <a href="https://www.facebook.com/cerclekisis/" target="_blank">facebook</a>.
link: https://www.cerclekisis.com/

title: Community projects (en anglais)
description: Ce centre de recherche a été créé par suite d’un projet universitaire dont l’objectif était de cerner les obstacles auxquels font face les communautés autochtones du Nord. Il offre des programmes de formation pour les aînés, les jeunes et les utilisateurs de terres autochtones et soutient les initiatives communautaires qui reflètent les priorités et les besoins locaux
link: https://www.dechinta.ca/our-community-work

title: IndigiNews (en anglais)
description: Collaboration dirigée par des Autochtones et qui couvre l’actualité autochtone dans la vallée de l’Okanagan et l’île de Vancouver, IndigiNews vise à « pratiquer un journalisme qui sert les collectivités locales et les sujets qui les intéressent [et à]... mettre à l’essai de nouveaux modèles d’affaires qui contribuent à la durabilité d’un journalisme autochtone indépendant au Canada ». <a href="https://indiginews.com/team" target="_blank">Les membres de l’équipes</a> expliquent clairement <a href="https://indiginews.com/okanagan/indiginews-storytelling-intentions-canoe-2022" target="_blank">les intentions derrière leur travail</a>, dont celle de pratiquer un journalisme rationnel, d’établir des ponts, d’accorder la priorité aux retombées et non au nombre de clics, et de faire preuve d’une transparence absolue.
link: https://indiginews.com/

title: Sharing Responsibility for Decolonization (en anglais)
description: Tim Fox (Natoyi’sokasiim), membre de la Confédération des Pieds-Noirs (Siksikaitsitapi), raconte son rôle dans l’engagement pris par la Calgary Foundation envers le changement organisationnel, le partage du pouvoir décisionnel et la priorisation claire des modes de connaissance autochtones. Consultez également ce <a href="https://carleton.ca/panl/2021/calgary-foundations-work-on-reconciliation-and-racial-equity/" target="_blank">court article</a> sur ce processus.
link: https://www.thegoodpartnership.com/podcast/tim-fox

title: At Fairy Creek, Indigenous-settler allyships are complicated — but they’re working (en anglais)
description: Cette collaboration née lors d’une campagne de protection d’arbres anciens pourrait renforcer la lutte contre la colonisation.
link: https://ricochet.media/en/3690/at-fairy-creek-indigenous-settler-allyships-are-complicated-but-theyre-working

title: The Circle (site en anglais)
description: The Circle contribue à changer de manière positive les relations entre le milieu philanthropique et les communautés autochtones en créant des espaces d’apprentissage, d’innovation, d’établissement de liens et de mise en œuvre. The Circle travaille de concert avec des organismes dirigés par des Autochtones, qui tiennent compte du savoir autochtone ou dont les bénéficiaires sont des Autochtones.
link: https://www.the-circle.ca/

title: Jeunes Autochtones
description: Ce projet de recherche collaboratif d’une durée de six ans est fondé sur les besoins déterminés par des organismes autochtones et soutient les programmes pour les jeunes dirigés par des Autochtones. Consultez aussi <a href="https://concordiauniversity.libguides.com/c.php?g=728196&p=5222667" target="_blank">l’article de Concordia annonçant</a> la création du projet.
link: https://www.chairejeunesse.ca/jeunes-autochtones/

title: Initiative for Indigenous Futures (en anglais)
description: Ce regroupement d’universités et d’organismes communautaires se consacre à représenter de multiples façons les Autochtones de demain afin de mieux comprendre les voies qu’il faut emprunter aujourd’hui. L’initiative, qui comporte quatre grands volets (ateliers, résidences, symposiums et archives), encourage artistes, universitaires, jeunes et aînés à imaginer les communautés de l’avenir.
link: https://indigenousfutures.net/

title: Projets d’engagement communautaire
description: Les projets en cours comprennent la boîte à outils le Decolonial Toolbox, qui comprend un parcours d’autoformation qui permet aux utilisateurs d’enrichir progressivement leurs connaissances au fur et à mesure qu’ils en découvrent davantage sur les réalités indigènes et UMITEMIEU, une initiative qui permet d’initier des jeunes issues de communautés autochtones aux arts numériques et à la photogrammétrie tout en leur permettant d’interagir avec des objets du Musée McCord.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/fr/a-propos/engagement-communautaire/bureau/projets.html

title: First Peoples’ Postsecondary Storytelling Exchange (en anglais)
description: Cette initiative vise à améliorer les expériences postsecondaires des étudiants autochtones en permettant à ceux-ci de partager leur histoire et leurs points de vue. Les membres de l’équipe ont utilisé une démarche participative afin de renforcer les capacités des nouveaux chercheurs autochtones et de faciliter la collaboration entre les cinéastes, les écoles et les organismes éducatifs à Kahnawake, au Nunavik et à Tiohtiá:ke (Montréal).
link: https://fppse.net/project/

title: Meet the Concordia University Research Chairs: Heather Igloliorte (vidéo en anglais)
description: Heather Igloliorte discute du rôle de l’éthique réciproque de la conservation et de la curation de l’art autochtone dans ce projet de recherche. Regardez également l’épisode de balado <a href="https://www.bgc.bard.edu/research-forum/articles/571/episode-5-heather-igloliorte-inspiring" target="_blank">Inspiring Change</a> dans lequel Mme Igloliorte discute du concept d’exposition inclusive.
link: https://youtu.be/5kBflswtJyQ

title: A Concordia student report on reconciliation in Northern Ontario is live on CTV Montreal (en anglais)
description: Le documentaire From shore to sky raconte la création d’un projet d’énergie solaire dans la communauté Kiashke Zaaging Anishinaabek (Première Nation de Gull Bay).
link: https://www.concordia.ca/news/stories/2019/05/06/a-concordia-student-report-on-reconciliation-in-northern-ontario-live-on-ctv-montreal.html

title: Concordia’s Institute for Investigative Journalism coordinates a major project looking at Indigenous communities’ water and health (en anglais)
description: « La promesse de l’eau » est une enquête collaborative à l’échelle du Canada coordonnée par l’Institut du journalisme d’enquête qui porte sur l’infrastructure des eaux dans les communautés autochtones. Au total, 75 étudiants de 10 universités et collèges à l’échelle nationale participent à cette initiative, de même que près de 24 journalistes représentant 6 organes de presse.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/news/stories/2021/02/24/concordias-institute-for-investigative-journalism-coordinates-a-major-project-looking-at-indigenous-communities-water-and-health.html

title: More Than Personal Communication: Templates for Citing Indigenous Elders and Knowledge Keepers (en anglais)
description: Lorisia MacLeod (Nation crie James Smith) décrit la démarche qu’elle a utilisée afin de concevoir, en collaboration avec le personnel du Centre NorQuest pour étudiants autochtones, des modèles de référence bibliographiques concernant les aînés et les gardiens du savoir autochtones. Ces modèles ont été adoptés ou cités par 25 établissements du Canada et des États-Unis.
link: https://doi.org/10.18357/kula.135

title: Elements of Indigenous style: A Guide for Writing by and about Indigenous Peoples (en anglais)
description: Ce livre traite des erreurs courantes dans les textes sur les peuples autochtones et des façons de les éviter, donne des conseils pour être sensible aux réalités culturelles au travail, comprend une discussion sur les termes à privilégier et à éviter et propose des lignes directrices éditoriales.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1028142966

title: Why Indigenous Literatures Matter (en anglais)
description: Ce livre provocateur met les lecteurs au défi d’examiner d’un œil critique leurs idées préconçues sur la littérature autochtone, l’histoire et les politiques, sans jamais oublier les liens affectifs qui sous-tendent notre humanité commune et le pouvoir des histoires sur le changement individuel et social.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/910987272

title: Literatures, Communities, and Learning: Conversations with Indigenous Writers (en anglais)
description: Ce livre réunit neuf conversations avec les auteurs autochtones Tenille Campbell, Warren Cariou, Marilyn Dumont, Daniel Heath Justice, Lee Maracle, Sharron Proulx-Turner, David Alexander Robertson, Richard Van Camp et Katherena Vermette sur le lien entre la littérature autochtone et l’apprentissage, et entre leurs écrits et les communautés.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1134768253

title: Bureau de l’engagement communautaire
description: Le mandat du Bureau de l’engagement communautaire consiste à nouer et à entretenir des relations fructueuses et mutuellement profitables entre l’Université et les diverses communautés montréalaises. La Coordonnatrice de l’engagement communautaire autochtone aide les personnes et les milieux communautaires autochtones à accéder aux ressources de l’Université et elle appuie les initiatives des membres autochtones du corps professoral, de l’effectif étudiant et du personnel de Concordia. Son rôle est de guider le processus de collaboration de sorte que que les protocoles et pratiques privilégiées par les collectivités autochtones soient respectés sur le chemin de la lutte contre les inégalités.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/fr/a-propos/engagement-communautaire/bureau.html

title: Otsenhákta Student Centre
description: Situé sur le campus, le Centre étudiant Otsenhákta est une ressource pour les étudiantes et étudiants autochtones (membres des Premières Nations, inuits et métis).
link: https://www.concordia.ca/students/otsenhakta.html

title: 
description: 
link: 

title: Indigenous Directions
description: Ce carrefour est l’endroit où trouver de l’information sur les ressources, cours, travaux de recherche et projets en lien avec les Autochtones à l’Université Concordia et ailleurs.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/indigenous.html

title: Concordia's First Peoples' Studies Subject Guide
description: Cette ressource comprend des liens vers les guides thématiques de l’Université Concordia axés sur les Autochtones.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/first-peoples-studies.html

title: First Voices Week
description: Une série d’activités politiques, sociales, universitaires et culturelles animées par des Autochtones. Elle vise à établir des ponts entre les communautés autochtones et non autochtones en soulignant et en célébrant la diversité des nations autochtones sur l’Île de la Tortue.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/students/otsenhakta/events/first-voices-week.html

title: Rock your mocks
description: Cette campagne annuelle d’une semaine fait la promotion de la fierté culturelle en invitant les peuples autochtones à partager leur histoire en publiant des photos de leurs mocassins. Célébrez avec Concordia à l’aide du mot-clic #CUrockyourmocs et avec <a href="https://rockyourmocs.org/" target="_blank">le monde entier</a> à l’aide du mot-clic #RockYourMocs
link: https://www.concordia.ca/indigenous/stories/events/rock-your-mocs.html

title: Indigenous Issues 101
description: Vowel, a Métis author, activist and law scholar from manitow-sâkahikan, dubs these blog posts her "Indigenous Issue Primers". Categories include Specific Myths or Misunderstandings, Identity and Culture, Law & Treaties, Historic and Continuing Injustice.
link: https://apihtawikosisan.com/aboriginal-issue-primers/

title: 
description: 
link: 

title: Trousse à outils pour mieux agir en matière de justice autochtone
description: Prepared by a group of Indigenous and settler students from Université de Montréal's Comité droit autochtone. Basic info and infographics relating to stereotypes, racism, the Indian Act, reserves, justice, UNDRIP.
link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KrUZkkp8UUNolodV6HYJ3aQSAgUtIJ9r/view?fbclid=IwAR0mtjTAvqyiguVryl9hDUtVL8mrfnAF2gkHAmZUSuNptzgxYHe7s4eDS_s

title: Our Stories: First Peoples in Canada
description: "Companion text for the Indigenous Studies: First Peoples’ Stories in Canada certificate program at Centennial College. This textbook is available to anyone who wishes to learn more about the stories of the Indigenous Peoples who are from what is currently Canada. We share this resource with great thanks to all those who shared their stories with us."
link: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/indigstudies/#navigation

title: Resources
description: Tools & resources recommended by Mikana, a local Indigenous non-profit working for social change via education. Even more resources available in <a href="https://www.mikana.ca/ressources/" target="_blank">French</a>.
link: https://www.mikana.ca/en/resources/

title: Knowledge Space
description: A collaboration between the National Centre for Collaboration and Indigenous Education and First Nations University of Canada this expansive video collection aims to awaken people to the importance of Indigenous knowledge in today’s world. Covers topics such as about subjects as protocols, experiential learning, and Indigenous knowledge; land, language & culture. See especially the sections on <a href="https://www.nccie.ca/knowledge-space/elder-knowledge/" target="_blank">Elder Knowledge</a> and <a href="https://www.nccie.ca/knowledge-space/indigenous-governance/" target="_blank">Indigenous Governance</a>.
link: https://www.nccie.ca/knowledge-space/

title: Reconciliation through Education
description: Materials and resources to teach about the history and creation of the residential school system, its ongoing legacy, and how it has shaped the country we live in today.
link: https://nctr.ca/education/

title: Public Inquiry Commission on relations between Indigenous Peoples and certain public services in Québec: listening, reconciliation and progress
description: Known as the "Viens Report", documents systemic racism and mistreatment of Indigenous peoples in healthcare and other public services and includes specific calls for action to address these.
link: https://www.cerp.gouv.qc.ca/fileadmin/Fichiers_clients/Rapport/Summary_report.pdf

title: Reclaiming Power and Place: Executive Smmary of the Final Report
description: In addition to this summary document, you can find the full report, supplementary reports (such as those focusing on Quebec, or on the term genocide) as well as transcripts and more on the the Concordia library <a href="https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/first-peoples-studies/guide-to-missing-and-murdered-indigenous-women-and-girls-inquiry.html" target="_blank">Guide to Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls Inquiry</a>.
link: https://www.mmiwg-ffada.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/Executive_Summary.pdf

title: Honouring the truth, reconciling for the future: summary of the final report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada
description: In addition to this seminal summary document from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) chaired by the Honourable Murray Sinclair, you can find the six individual volumes, as well as a number of related reports and articles, in the Concordia <a href="https://www.concordia.ca/library/guides/first-peoples-studies/truth-and-reconciliation-commission-of-canada--trc-.html" target="_blank">Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada library guide</a>.
link: http://publications.gc.ca/site/eng/9.800288/publication.html

title: QTC Final Report: Achieving Aimaqatigiingniq
description: "For many years, Inuit Elders in the Qikiqtani (Baffin) region have been haunted by a deep sense of loss as they remember how their lives changed in the decades after 1950. The thematic reports and special studies in this collection explore themes that emerged during the work of the Qikiqtani Truth Commission. What started as an inquiry into the slaughter of sled dogs quickly grew to include other experiences of profound colonial change."
link: https://www.qtcommission.ca/sites/default/files/public/thematic_reports/thematic_reports_english_final_report.pdf

title: Report of the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples
description: This Royal Commission was established in 1991 in the wake of the Kanesatake Resistance ('Oka Crisis'). The commission’s 5-volume report, the product of extensive research and community consultation, was a broad survey of historical and contemporary relations between Indigenous and non-Indigenous peoples in Canada. The report made several recommendations, the majority of which were not implemented.
link: https://www.bac-lac.gc.ca/eng/discover/aboriginal-heritage/royal-commission-aboriginal-peoples/Pages/final-report.aspx

title: Parole autochtone avec Melissa Mollen Dupuis
description: Podcast series hosted by activist and filmmaker Melissa Mollen Dupuis, a member of the Innu community of Ekuanitshit. Topics include allyship, reconciliation, terminology, history, politics, culture.
link: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/espaces-autochtones/1769529/parole-autochtone

title: Kuei! Kwe!
description: Host Melissa Mollen Dupuis showcases the talent and vitality of First Nations, Inuit and Métis peoples. She and her invited guests cover a range of topics related to Indigenous peoples in Quebec and Canada.
link: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/ohdio/premiere/emissions/8446/kuei-kwe?pageNumber=2

title: Ça s’est passé ainsi
description: This French-language podcast presents traditional Aboriginal stories, passed down from generation to generation, anchored in the present by the storytellers.
link: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/ohdio/balados/7605/contes-autochtones-nature-traditions-transmission

title: APTN News Podcasts
description: See especially the podcasts based on Current Affairs Shows: <b>InFocus</b>, <b>Face to Face</b>, <b>Nation to Nation and APTN Investigates</b>.
link: https://www.aptnnews.ca/podcasts/

title: Pionnières
description: Each episode profiles an Indigenous female-identified “pioneer” and a younger woman following in her footsteps. With host Widia Larivière, they discuss the challenges of being trailblazers in their field and the current issues that mark their struggles.
link: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/ohdio/balados/8391/pionnieres

title: Tipatshimun podcast: L'histoire orale à l'ère numérique
description: The episodes of this French-language podcast are the result of a pilot project which allowed ten Innu participants from different communities in the Saguenay and North Shore regions to produce and broadcast their own original programs based on themes specific to their own universes, mainly focusing on Innu language and culture.
link: https://socam.net/tipatshimun

title: Où sont tes plumes
description: Two pairs of sisters share their humorous take on, and real-life experiences with, stereotypes about Indigenous people.
link: https://vimeo.com/135614613

title: Parole autochtone avec Melissa Mollen Dupuis*
description: Video series hosted by activist and filmmaker Melissa Mollen Dupuis, a member of the Innu community of Ekuanitshit. Topics include allyship, reconciliation, terminology, history, politics, culture.
link: https://ici.radio-canada.ca/espaces-autochtones/parole-autochtone-avec-melissa-mollen-dupuis

title: Décoloniser l'histoire
description: 10 little known chapters in history told from the point of view of racialized and Indigenous hosts. See especially episodes 1, 3,6, 8, 10.
link: https://video.telequebec.tv/details/38704-decoloniser-lhistoire

title: Briser le code: le lexique en vidéo*
description: In French only, Short video capsules demystifying key terms such as cultural appropriation, unconscious bias, and basic terminology related to Indigenous peoples and issues.
link: https://briserlecode.telequebec.tv/LeLexique

title: Reel Injun
description: In this feature-length documentary, Cree filmmaker Neil Diamond takes an entertaining and insightful look at the portrayal of North American Indigenous people throughout a century of cinema.
link: https://www-nfb-ca.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/film/reel_injun/

title: I’m not the Indian you had in mind
description: Based on a poem by Thomas King, this short challenges the stereotypical portrayal of First Nations peoples in the media.
link: https://vimeo.com/39451956

title: Understanding Aboriginal Identity
description: Explores the complex issue of self-identification for Indigenous people. Today, Aboriginal identity remains inextricably linked with past government legislation and the continued stereotyping of Aboriginal people in the media and Canadian history.
link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IcSnbXmJ9V0

title: Colonization Road
description: Comedian and journalist Ryan McMahon travels Ontario’s colonization roads learning about their impact on First Nations and settlers.
link: https://gem.cbc.ca/media/firsthand/s02e09

title: Unsettling Canada: A National Wake-up Call
description: Together the two authors--a Secwepemc activist intellectual and a Syilx (Okanagan) businessman--bring a fresh perspective and new ideas to Canada's most glaring piece of unfinished business: the place of Indigenous peoples within the country's political and economic space. Sets out a plan for a new sustainable Indigenous economy and lays out a roadmap for getting there. Available in French as <i>Décoloniser le Canada</i> .
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/895341214

title: Kuei, je te salue: conversation sur le racisme
description: A series of letters about exchanged between renowned Innu poet Natasha Kanapé Fontaine and Quebec-American novelist Deni Ellis Béchard. First published in 2016, the 2021 edition includes letters written during the period of the murder of George Floyd and Black Lives Matter, as well as the death of Joyce Echaquan amidst brutally racist treatment at a Joliette hospital. See also older <a href="https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1030278863" target="_blank">2018 English edition</a>.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1237278519

title: Oser s'en parler podcast
description: Independent French-language podcast which aims to deconstruct settler unease and inertia while amplifying Indigenous voices. Episode topics include: treaties, false dichotymies, going beyond tropes and clichés, and calculated marginalization.
link: https://www.osersenparler.ca/podcast/

title: Voies Parallèles podcast
description: Aims to equip people who want to take action to build a more just world by taking decisive steps towards reconciliation and reparations in Quebec. Kijatai, a member of the Anishinabe Nation, and Laurence, a white settler, learn about the realities of Indigenous communities via their invited guests and dream together about righting wrongs.
link: https://podcasts.apple.com/ca/podcast/voies-parall%C3%A8les/id1581268884

title: Indigenous Arts Protocols
description: Video about the importance of protocols, to present a clear understanding of the responsibility that comes with cultural practices, and ways to honour the guiding principles of protocols.
link: https://youtu.be/c6VuHJi6O0Q

title: Aide-mémoire sur la collaboration avec les créatrices et créateurs autochtone
description: The result of a collaboration between Mikana and the City of Montreal's Service de la Culture to assist them in the creation and redefinition of their programs and initiatives for Indigenous creators. Deals with topics such as collaboration, Indigenous cultural resurgence, cultural project development and much more. An essential resource for all non-Indigenous people working in arts and culture.
link: https://www.mikana.ca/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Mikana_Aide-memoire_web.pdf

title: On-Screen Protocols & Pathways : A Media Production Guide to Working with First Nations, Métis and Inuit communities
description: Provides cultural principles, key findings from a national consultation process, and best practices for filmmakers, production companies, and funders when depicting Indigenous content on screen, and how communities can be collaborative partners.
link: https://imaginenative.org/publications

title: Kuessipan: au-delà des clichés, avec Myriam Verreault
description: An episode from the Oser s'en parler podcast. How do we ensure that our "good intentions" are respectful? We talk with Myriam Verreault, co-writer and director of the film Kuessipan about the collaboration process embedded in the creation of this film, based on the novel by Innu writer Naomi Fontaine.
link: https://www.osersenparler.ca/ep-8-kuessipan-collaborer-respectueusement/

title: 
description: 
link: 

title: Working Effectively with Indigenous Peoples®
description: Blog by Bob Joseph, author, consultant and member of the Gwawaenuk Nation. See especially the posts <a href="https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/7-tips-on-building-relationships-with-indigenous-peoples" target="_blank">7 Tips on Building Relationships with Indigenous Peoples</a> and the <a href="https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/topic/indigenous-protocol" target="_blank">Indigenous Protocol tag</a>, covering protocols related to land acknowledgement, Elders, talking sticks, potlatches and tourism.
link: https://www.ictinc.ca/blog

title: Engaging with Indigenous Communities
description: Though part of <a href="https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationcurriculumdevelopers/" target="_blank">Pulling Together</a>, an open textbook intended for post-secondary curriculum developers, this chapter also has relevance for the community sector, with sections on <a href="https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationcurriculumdevelopers/chapter/respecting-protocols/" target="_blank">Respecting Protocols</a>, <a href="https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationcurriculumdevelopers/chapter/building-relationships/" target="_blank">Building Relationships</a> and <a href="https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationcurriculumdevelopers/chapter/learning-from-mistakes/" target="_blank">Learning from Mistakes</a>.
link: https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationcurriculumdevelopers/part/section-3/

title: UQAT: l’importance des liens avec les communautés
description: An outline of the accomplishments of L’Université du Québec en Abitibi-Témiscamingue in the area of increased accessibility to post-secondary education for First Nations students and of active collaboration with Indigenous communities. Note also its news-making Pavillon des Premiers Peuples in Val-d’Or described in <a href="https://concordiauniversity.libguides.com/%E2%80%9Dhttps://www.uqat.ca/telechargements/autochtone/UQAT_brochure_FR_web.pdf%E2%80%9D" target="_blank">this brochure</a>.

link: https://www.capres.ca/dossiers/etudiants-des-premiers-peuples-en-enseignement-superieur-dossier-capres/uqat-limportance-des-liens-avec-les-communautes/

title: IndigiNews
description: An Indigenous-led collaboration covering the news of Okanagan Valley and Vancouver Island., IndigiNews aims to “provide journalism that serves and is driven by what local communities say they want [and to]... experiment with new business models that contribute to the long-term sustainability of independent Indigenous news in Canada.” The <a href="https://indiginews.com/team" target="_blank">team members</a> deliberately spell out the <a href="https://indiginews.com/indiginews-10-intentions" target="_blank">intentions behind their work</a>, with aims such as relational journalism, building bridges, impact over clicks and radical transparency.
link: https://indiginews.com/

title: Sharing Responsibility for Decolonization
description: Tim Fox (Natoyi’sokasiim), member of the Siksikaitsitapi (Blackfoot Confederacy), shares his lived experience of facilitating the Calgary Foundation to commit to generational change and to actions such shifting decision-making power and explicitly prioritizing Indigenous ways of knowing. See also his recent <a href="https://carleton.ca/panl/2021/calgary-foundations-work-on-reconciliation-and-racial-equity/" target="_blank">short article</a> about this process.

link: https://www.thegoodpartnership.com/post/___87

title: Idle No More
description: Founded in 2012 by four women (three Indigenous one settler) from Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, this social movement “rapidly grew into an inclusive, continent-wide network of urban and rural Indigenous working hand in hand with non-Indigenous allies to build a movement for Indigenous rights and the protection of land, water, and sky.” Follow the <a href="https://www.facebook.com/IdleNoMoreQuebec/" target="_blank">Quebec branch of Idle No More</a> on Facebook.
link: https://idlenomore.ca/

title: At Fairy Creek, Indigenous-settler allyships are complicated — but they’re working
description: Roots of collaboration grown at battle for old growth could strengthen fight against colonization.
link: https://ricochet.media/en/3690/at-fairy-creek-indigenous-settler-allyships-are-complicated-but-theyre-working

title: The Circle
description: The Circle contributes to positive change between Philanthropy and Indigenous communities by creating spaces of learning, innovation, relationship-building, co-creation, and activation. The Circle works alongside Indigenous-led organizations, Indigenous informed organizations, organizations with Indigenous beneficiaries.
link: https://www.the-circle.ca/

title: Community projects
description: Research centre created out of an academic project that identified the barriers faced by Northern Indigenous communities. It offers training programming for Elders, youth and Indigenous land users, and supports community-led efforts that reflect local needs and priorities.
link: https://www.dechinta.ca/our-community-work

title: Cercle Kisis
description: Founded in 2014 by Alexandre Bacon, an Innu from Mashteuiatsh, this organization strives towards collaborations between Indigenous and settler peoples,and aims to promote Indigenous cultures, arts and practices . Follow them on <a href="https://www.facebook.com/cerclekisis/" target="_blank">facebook<a>.
link: https://www.cerclekisis.com/

title: Community-engaged projects
description: Recent projects include the Decolonial Toolbox, The bilingual toolbox includes a self-educational pathway that allows users to progressively enrich their knowledge as they learn more about Indigenous realities, and UMITEMIEU, an initiative that introduces Indigenous youth to digital arts and photogrammetry and allows them to connect with objects from the McCord Museum collections.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/about/community/office/projects.html

title: Meet the Concordia University Research Chairs: Heather Igloliorte
description: Dr. Heather Igloliorte discusses the role of reciprocal ethics of care and of Indigenous-led art curation within this research project. See also the <a href="https://www.bgc.bard.edu/research-forum/articles/571/episode-5-heather-igloliorte-inspiring" "target="_blank">Inspiring Change podcast</a> episode where she discusses inclusive exhibition making.
link: https://youtu.be/5kBflswtJyQ

title: A Concordia student report on reconciliation in Northern Ontario is live on CTV Montreal
description: From shore to sky tells the story of a solar energy project in the Kiashke Zaaging Anishinaabek-Gull Bary First Nation.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/news/stories/2019/05/06/a-concordia-student-report-on-reconciliation-in-northern-ontario-live-on-ctv-montreal.html

title: Concordia’s Institute for Investigative Journalism coordinates a major project looking at Indigenous communities’ water and health
description: A Canada-wide collaborative investigation facilitated by the Institute for Investigative Journalism which focuses on water systems in Indigenous communities. The initiative involves 75 students from 10 universities and colleges nationwide as well as nearly two dozen journalists from six news outlets.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/news/stories/2021/02/24/concordias-institute-for-investigative-journalism-coordinates-a-major-project-looking-at-indigenous-communities-water-and-health.html

title: More Than Personal Communication: Templates For Citing Indigenous Elders and Knowledge Keepers
description: Lorisia MacLeod (James Smith Cree Nation) describes the process behind her development, in partnership with the staff of the NorQuest Indigenous Student Centre, of citation templates for Indigenous Elders and Knowledge Keepers. These citation templates have been adopted/linked to by twenty-five institutions across Canada and the United States.
link: https://doi.org/10.18357/kula.135

title: The Canadian Journal for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning
description: An open access online journal that publishes peer-reviewed articles and essays in French and English that address teaching and learning in universities and colleges across Canada.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/646692884

title: International Journal for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning
description: An open access peer-reviewed journal for international research and information about the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning and its application in higher education.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/66463755

title: The Journal of Scholarship of Teaching and Learning: JoSoTL
description: An open access peer-reviewed journal for the dissemination of interdisciplinary research and writing about the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning in higher education.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/43145351

title: Teaching & Learning Inquiry
description: An open access, peer-reviewed journal that publishes articles about the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning across disciplinary, institutional, and geographical contexts.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/790514393

title: The Canadian Journal of Higher Education: La revue canadienne d'enseignement supérieur
description: An open access, peer-reviewed publication that aims to contribute to research and scholarly debate on higher education in Canada. 
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/55042925

title: New Directions for Teaching and Learning
description: A peer-reviewed journal that publishes theory, research, and practice about teaching and learning in postsecondary education from researchers and practitioners. 
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/38868279

title: Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL): Multidisciplinary Journals
description: 
link: https://guides.library.utoronto.ca/SOTL_journals_databases/Multidisciplinary

title: Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL): Discipline Specific Journals
description: 
link: https://guides.library.utoronto.ca/SOTL_journals_databases/Discipline_Specific

title: The Scholarship of Teaching and Learning: Discipline Specific Journals
description: 
link: https://libguides.usask.ca/c.php?g=267530&p=2596151

title: Scholarship of Teaching and Learning: Disciplines
description: 
link: https://guides.library.ualberta.ca/sotl/disciplines

title: A Selective List of Journals on Teaching & Learning
description: 
link: https://acrl.ala.org/IS/instruction-tools-resources-2/pedagogy/a-selected-list-of-journals-on-teaching-learning/

title: ERIC
description: ERIC Online covers over 885 current journals in education and related disciplines, the majority of which are peer reviewed. Provides comprehensive coverage of topics in early childhood education, elementary education, secondary education, as well as adult education and higher education.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://search.proquest.com/eric/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Education Source
description: Education Source offers a complete collection of full-text education journals. It encompasses an international array of English-language periodicals, monographs, yearbooks, and many unique sources that were never previously available, covering all levels of education--from early childhood to higher education--as well as all educational specialties, such as multilingual education, health education and testing. 
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=eue

title: Dissertations & Theses Global
description: Citations with abstracts for doctoral dissertations and master's theses from North American and European graduate schools, published from 1743 to the present day offering full text for works added since 1997, along with selected full text for works written prior to 1997. Coverage: 1861 onwards (Most of the full text starts from 1997 to the present including some that go as far back as the early 1900's). Update Frequency: Every year, more than 55,000 new citations are added.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://search.proquest.com/pqdtglobal/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Scholarship of Teaching and Learning Annotated Literature Database
description: This website provides annotated SoTL resources, sorted into many useful categories (e.g., cheating, faculty wellness, decolonization, project-based learning). 
link: https://researchsotl.wordpress.com/

title: Decolonize me
description: Heather Igliorte is Assistant Professor,  Art History
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/802054739

title: The nature of empires and the empires of nature
description: Karl S. Hele is Associate Professor and Director of First Peoples Studies, School of Community and Public Affairs.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/805879667

title: The Ojibwe People's Dictionary
description: A searchable, talking Ojibwe-English dictionary that features the voices of Ojibwe speakers [website]
link: https://ojibwe.lib.umn.edu

title: Statistical record of Native North Americans
description: Canada and the U.S., 1993, A compilation of statistical data on the indigenous population of North America, covering Native North Americans as compared with other racial/ethnic groups under many specific subject headings; Native North Americans as compared with one another (e.g., by reservation, by tribe, by sex, by age, etc.); [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/28257149

title: Kappler revisited: an index and bibliographic guide to American Indian treaties
description: 2003, [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/52768104

title: First Nations governance law
description: Canadian, 2008, [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/261224897

title: Aboriginal law: cases, material and commentary
description: Canadian, 1999, [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/43286591

title: Native law
description: Canadian, 1990, [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/19625020

title: Le Québec autochtone
description: 1996, [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/670664323

title: Atlas of the North American Indian
description: Various tribes and civilizations, migrations, tribal locations, historical landmarks, reservations, religions, and cultures of American Indians, as well as Canadian and US policies, 120 maps. [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/44018509

title: Native peoples A to Z : a reference guide to native peoples of the western hemisphere
description: 8 volumes, [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/455200049

title: Handbook of North American Indians
description: Multiple volumes, Smithsonian Institution [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/13240086

title: Handbook of case law on the Indian Act
description: 1984, [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/16055989

title: Native American issues: a reference handbook
description: 1996, [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/34633444

title: First Nations governance handbook: a resource guide for effective councils
description: [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/55146790

title: The Praeger handbook on contemporary issues in Native America
description: 2007, 2 volumes, Topics of concern to the future of Native Americans, including health, environment, cultural heritage, rights, and economic sustainability. [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/76902020

title: Aboriginal law handbook
description: 2008, [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/271080093

title: Treaties with American Indians: an encyclopedia of rights, conflicts, and sovereignty
description: 2008, 3 volumes, American Indian treaties with the United States, primarily, and Canada. [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/153598713

title: Reference encyclopedia of the American Indian
description: [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/56569267

title: The encyclopaedia of the first peoples of North America
description: [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/40892183

title: Encyclopedia of native tribes of North America
description: 400 separately identifiable peoples native to the North American continent, both living and extinct, from the Canadian Arctic to the Rio Grande. Includes photos and maps. [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/84387362

title: The Gale encyclopedia of Native American tribes
description: 4 vols, 400 tribes; location, population, language, organization, history, religion, language, and customs. [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/37475188

title: Encyclopedia of Native American shamanism: sacred ceremonies of North America
description: [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/39633694

title: Encyclopedia of Native American healing
description: Native American healing found cross-culturally in North America, including Canadian and Inuit cultures. [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/34984233

title: The encyclopedia of native American biography: six hundred life stories of important people from Powhatan to Wilma Mankiller
description: Ranging from before the European arrival to the present day. [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/34553524

title: Encyclopedia of American Indian history
description: From the origins of Native American cultures through the years of colonialism and non-Native expansion to the present. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/173835009

title: The British Museum encyclopedia of native North America
description: [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/42374306

title: A Native American encyclopedia: history, culture, and peoples
description: Addressing over 200 groups of Native American groups in Canada and the United States. [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/42683042

title: American Indian religious traditions: an encyclopedia
description: 3 vols. North American religions, religious practices, and rituals. [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/57143249

title: Bibliography of the Iroquoian languages
description: 1888, [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/70583397

title: Oneida-English/English Oneida dictionary
description: [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/48670689

title: Cherokee-English dictionary
description: [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1993300

title: Tuscarora-English/English-Tuscarora dictionary
description: [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/244766374

title: Native American women: a biographical dictionary
description: [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/46641650

title: Historical dictionary of Native American movements
description: Entries on important persons, places, events, and institutions and significant political, economic, social, and cultural aspects-is a useful reference on topics dealing with key movements, organizations, and leadership strategies. [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/193177399

title: Dictionary of Native American Mythology
description: Quickly access the meanings of hundreds of elements of lore--from names, phrases, and symbols to images, motifs, and themes, 10 maps. [print]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/26588412

title: Factiva
description: Select Companies/Markets, then Company. Then select Reports. Ratios included in each report.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://global.factiva.com/en/sess/login.asp?xsid=S00YszkYszoZGb75DEs5DEnM92uMpIpNpNyMHmnRsIuMcNG1pRRQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQUFBQQAA

title:  Public policy and public opinion : a bibliography
description: 1994, Vanier, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/35871773

title:  Politique et société au Québec : guide bibliographique 
description: 1993, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/29979514

title: Canadian regionalism and political culture : a bibliography
description: 1985, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/25451924

title: Canadian Politics Bibliography
description: 1992, in English and French, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/25873087

title:  Canadian political parties, 1867-1968 : a historical bibliography 
description: 1977, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/3403534

title:  A bibliography of works on Canadian foreign relations, 1991-1995 
description: 1998,  [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/39052068

title: A bibliography of works on Canadian foreign relations, 1986-1990
description: 1994, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/30359054

title: A bibliography of works on Canadian foreign relations, 1981-1985 
description: 1987, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/17299352

title:  A bibliography of works on Canadian foreign relations, 1976-1980 
description: 1982, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/8475718

title: Bibliographie de l'histoire du Québec et du Canada, 1981-1985 = Bibliography of the history of Quebec and Canada, 1981-1985
description: 1990, 2 volumes,  in English and French, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/23054428

title: Bibliographie sur l'administration publique québécois = Quebec public administration : bibliography 
description: 1985, [print book]  
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/74367168

title: Aboriginal self-government in Canada : a bibliography 1987-90 
description: 1991, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/29185377

title: Aboriginal public administrations: annotated bibliography
description: 1994, An annotated collection of selected theses, publications, studies and other works representative, but not exhaustive, of reference material relevant to the aboriginal public service sector, in English and French, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/30813782

title: The Oxford Handbook of Public Management
description: The current state of public management as a field of study, with Canadian content. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/252681039

title: The Oxford Companion to Canadian History Online
description: [e-book]
link: https://www-oxfordreference-com.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/view/10.1093/acref/9780195415599.001.0001/acref-9780195415599

title: Répertoire du personnel politique québécois féminin, 1921-1989 
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/22348047

title:  Guide to Canadian ministries since confederation, July 1, 1867-February 1, 1982. 
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/9686766

title: The Canadian Who's Who
description: 1910-current, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/2604443

title: OECD iLibrary
description: OECD iLibrary contains all the publications and datasets released by OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development), International Energy Agency (IEA), Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA), OECD Development Centre, PISA (Programme for International Student Assessment), and International Transport Forum (ITF) since 1998. [Database]
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org

title: Le Quebec Statistique
description: 1985-2002, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/13787433

title: FP Markets, Canadian Demographics
description: 1999-current, [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/40448307

title: Statistics Canada
description: Access to Canadian Statistics, main products: CANSIM and the Census [Database]
link: https://statcan.gc.ca/start-debut-eng.html

title: CANSIM II
description: CANSIM (Canadian Socio-Economic Information Management System) is the Statistics Canada's computerized database of time series covering a wide variety of social and economic aspects of Canadian life. [Database]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/52370335

title: The Canadian Electoral System
description: Reviews the nature and operation of the Canadian electoral system. [e-book]
link: https://publications.gc.ca/site/eng/9.807923/publication.html

title: Keesing's Record of World Events
description: Provides summaries of world events derived from over 1,000 daily news reports. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/15359635

title: The Annual Register of World Events
description: 1966- current, The Annual Register is a year-by-year record of British and world events, published annually since 1758. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/8988874

title: Partis politiques et élections provinciales au Québec: bibliographies rétrospective (1867-1991) /
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/28427054

title: Library of Parliament: Federal Elections and Ridings History
description: 
link: https://lop.parl.ca/sites/ParlInfo/default/en_CA/ElectionsRidings

title: Canada votes 1935-1988
description: Complete election data from the constituency level through the province, region, and nation for more than a half-century of Canadian political life since the benchmark election of 1935. Description of the circumstances of all the elections and background descriptions of the electoral systems in each province and territory. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/18989658

title: Official Voting Results - Canada
description: Elections Canada, general [federal] elections 1997- current, by-elections 1998- current, [Database]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/40557369

title: Ipsos News Center - Canadian Opinion polls
description: Publicly released polls from 1995 forward  [Database]
link: https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/news-and-polls/overview

title: How Canadians Govern Themselves
description: 7th edition, Library of Parliament publication [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/642439831

title: Canada Year Book
description: Presented in almanac style, the Canada Year Book contains more than 500 pages of tables, charts and succinct analytical articles on every major area of Statistics Canada's expertise. The Canada Year Book is the premier reference on the social and economic life of Canada and its citizens. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1784899

title: International dictionary of public management and governance
description: This dictionary provides brief definitions of terms used in international public-management and governance parlance. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/62551736

title: The language of Canadian politics: a guide to important terms and concepts (ebook)
description: With nearly 600 cross-referenced entries, brief essays on the many facets of the Canadian political system.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/191934820

title: Dictionnaire de droit québécois et canadien
description: Quebec law dictionary [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/678874511

title: Canadian Oxford Dictionary Online
description: [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/62324867

title: Barron's Canadian law dictionary
description: Updated to keep pace with revisions in Canadian national and provincial law, this book is a concise guide to legal citation supplemented with information on relevant source materials, particularly in cases and statutes. It defines important legal terms, describes the Canadian court system and presents The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms in its entirely.  [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/223107948

title: Black's law dictionary
description: Heightened accuracy, more than 200 lawyers around the country reviewed terms. Definitions of more than 1,000 law-related abbreviations and acronyms. Almost 3,000 quotations drawn from sources over five centuries. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/420487111

title: Encyclopedia of Canada's peoples
description: Canada's peoples are described in 119 individual entries that range from Acadians to Ukrainians, Hyderabadis to Vietnamese. Each entry covers the origin of the group, the process of migration, arrival and settlement, economic and community life, family and kinship patterns, language and culture, education, religion, politics, intergroup relations, and the dynamics of group maintenance. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/41991562

title: La recherche documentaire en droit
description: Quebec legal research/literature [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/233522226

title: Reader's guide to Quebec studies
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/42457595

title: Dictionnaire des parlementaires du Québec, de 1792 à nos jours
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/428868626

title: Candian Parliamentary Guide/Guide parlementaire canadien
description: 1909-2012, multiple volumes, for years prior to 1909, please search for the call number: JL 5 A3, in library catalogue [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/2248417

title: Freedom in the World
description: 1979-2007, multiple volumes, The annual survey of political rights and civil liberties. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/5796565

title: The encyclopedia of libertarianism
description: As a continuation of the older tradition of classical liberalism, libertarian thinking draws on a rich body of thought and scholarship. Contemporary libertarian scholars are making contributions to such fields as philosophy, jurisprudence, economics, evolutionary psychology, political theory, and history. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/191924853

title: The handbook of national legislatures: a global survey
description: This book provides comprehensive survey-based data regarding the powers of national legislatures worldwide. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/213599630

title: Thomson Nelson guide to research and writing in political science
description: Provides students with writing instruction specific to the discipline. How to write a basic essay to op/ed pieces, position papers and briefing documents, and creating documents for use within the Parliamentary process. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/58052212

title: The political science student writer's manual
description: This comprehensive, practical writer's manual is designed to help readers accomplish two goals: 1) improve their writing skills and strategies and 2) learn political science at the same time. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/79511197

title: World encyclopedia of political systems and parties
description: 3 volumes, covers some 180 countries and dependent territories, describing their political systems and parties. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/61748377

title: Encyclopedia of U.S. Political History
description: 1500 to 1783: Colonial Beginnings through Revolution -- 1784 to 1840: The Early Republic -- 1841 to 1877: Expansion, Division, and Reconstruction -- 1878 to 1920: From the Gilded Age through Age of Reform -- 1921 to 1945: Prosperity, Depression, and War -- 1946 to 1975: Postwar Consensus to Social Unrest -- 1976 to Present: The Clash of Conservatism and Liberalism [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/608528740

title: Routledge International Encyclopedia of Women: global women's issues and knowledge
description: 4 volumes, Comprehensive global coverage of women's issues and concerns, from violence and sexuality to feminist theory, over 900 signed A-Z entries from US and Europe, Asia, the Americas, Oceania, and the Middle East. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/45059068

title: International Relations: the key concepts
description: Comprehensive and up-to-date, it introduces the most important themes in international relations in the post 9/11 era. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/166625725

title: Regional guide to international conflict and management from 1945 to 2003
description: Regional Guide to International Conflict Management from 1945 to 2003 provides global, regional, and specific information on the over 350 international conflicts that have occurred since World War II. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/56559484

title: Political  Handbook of the Middle East
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/95505095

title: Nationality and Nationalism
description: 4 volumes, v. 1. Theoretical studies -- v. 2. Area and period studies--antiquity and Europe -- v. 3. Area and period studies--modern Middle East, Asia, Africa, the Americas, Australia -- v. 4. Nation and art [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/48628138

title: Encyclopedia of Governance
description: 2 volumes, Governance topics for the period between the collapse of the post-war consensus and the 1970s.  Topic areas: political science, public administration, political economy and sociology. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/69104247

title: Europe: a concise encyclopedia of the European Union from Aachen to Zollverein
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/58872199

title: The Greenwood encyclopedia of international relations
description: 4 volumes, Illustrates the continuities in international history and its relevance for international relations by presenting readers with the great ideas, leading personalities, and major developments of the past. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/49284071

title: The international studies encyclopedia
description: Published in association with the International Studies Association (ISA), is the most comprehensive reference work of its kind for the fields of international studies and international relations.  [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/540607502

title: The Oxford International Encycloepdia of Peace
description: This innovative, multivolume encyclopedia charts the interdisciplinary field of Peace Studies, offering a comprehensive survey of the full range of historical, political, theoretical and philosophical issues relating to peace and conflict. All major figures are covered, as well as major events, organizations, theories, and more. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/568045912

title: Encyclopedia of the United Nations and international agreements
description: 4 volumes, 6,000 A-Z entries on the global body that has proved to be one of the great achievements of the twentieth century, and sheds light on its latest aims and initiatives at the start of the new millennium. The most in-depth reference of its kind, this work demystifies the vast universe of U.N. groups, causes and activities. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/50164558

title: A concise encyclopedia of the United Nations
description: The book provides in addition to concise and comprehensive information on the UN system insight into recent UN developments and reform efforts in the face of global opportunities and challenges. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/467926485

title: Encyclopedia of the developing world
description: 3 volumes, From 'acid precipitation' to 'zionism', the approximately 800 entries of this three-volume encyclopedia, ranging in length from 500 to 5000 words each, seek to provide understanding of the history, economic development, and politics of the developing world from 1945 to the present day. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/60705727

title: Encyclopedia of stateless nations: ethnic and national groups around the world
description: 4 volumes, This book provides an easy-to-use, accurate, and up-to-date guide to over 300 developed or emerging national groups worldwide. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/46918146

title: The encyclopedia of political revolutions
description: The Encyclopedia of Political Revolutions chronicles 2000 years of political revolutions and features approximately 300 articles providing answers to specific questions as well as in-depth treatment of events and trends. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/39606651

title: Encyclopedia of International Peacekeeping Operations
description: The coverage includes: major peacekeeping controversies; military doctrines; major missions; causes of the conflicts; biographical sketches; and UN offices responsible for peacekeeping operations, training centers, and programs. [print book - Vanier Library]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/40398030

title: International Encyclopedia of Human Rights: Freedoms, Abuses and Remedies
description: Giving the broadest scope to the terms human rights and freedoms, this reference encompasses constitutional rights and freedoms as well as those addressed in international and regional agreements. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/39634041

title: Encyclopedia of Human Rights
description: Country profiles, history, the key figures,  major organizations past and present, and topics in: economics, government, religion,journalism, law etc., that touch on human rights theory and practice. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/434880224

title: The Oxford Companion to the politics of the world
description: A-Z encyclopaedia designed as a comprehensive resource for understanding the complex terrain of world affairs. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/54846057

title: Encyclopedia of Politics: the left and the right
description: Individuals, movements, political parties, and ideological principles, left and right.  Topics Covered Countries/Regions: Politics, Laws , Political Issues, movements, parties. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/692301108

title: Encyclopedia of Political Theory
description: Examines the ideas of the major political theorists from before Plato to our own times; the main schools of political thought. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/568733765

title: Encyclopedia of government and politics
description: 2 volumes, government and politics at a global, regional and nation-state level, traditional and contemporary approaches; future research. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/52058199

title: Encyclopedia of genocide and crimes against humanity
description: 3 volumes, covers the ancient world to the present day and all regions of the world. Includes, 'any event that has been publicly and reasonably debated as falling with the subject matter....'. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/224041920

title: Encyclopedia of Democractic Thought
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/44952072

title: Encyclopedia of Conflicts since WWII
description: 4 volumes [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/39322978

title: Encyclopedia of American Foreign Policy
description: 3 volumes [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/48045754

title: The Blackwell Encyclopedia of Political Thought
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/14931318

title: The Blackwell Encyclopedia of Political Institutions
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/15629376

title: A dictionary of the European Union
description: This unique collection of data includes concise definitions and explanations on all aspects of the European Union. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/65204007

title: The Routledge dictionary of twentieth-century political thinkers
description: 170 entries from 96 contributors, many of whom are leading authorities in their field. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1100458612

title: International relations: a political dictionary
description: Defines and explains the significance of over 700 concepts, organizations, movements, treaties, and terms. A resource for students of international relations and for journalists and other writers. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/32969733

title: The Penguin dictionary of international relations
description: Providing a comprehensive overview of contemporary international relations, it contains over 700 definitions including: entries relating to ideas, theories, concepts, organisations and events . [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/41113670

title: Historical dictionary of international organizations
description: Provides a comprehensive overview of the major international organizations, both intergovernmental and international intergovernmental, of the 20th and 21st centuries. While the emphasis is on organizations that continue to operate today, important organizations that have ceased to exist are also included. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/659558318

title: International law: a dictionary
description: This dictionary acquaints legal and other professionals, students, and interested general readers with the basic tenets of public international law, combining the features of both a brief encyclopedic dictionary and a textbook in clear, understandable language. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/56111661

title: Dictionary of World Politics
description: A ready-reference encyclopedia that includes short definitions and brief explanations of modern political terms that are used in countries throughout the world. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/50478420

title: Dictionary of the history of ideas: studies of selected pivotal ideas
description: v. 1. Abstraction in the formulation of concepts, to Design argument.--v. 2. Despotism, to Law, common.--v. 3. Law, conception of, to Protest movements.--v. 4. Psychological ideas, to Zeitgeist.- [v. 5] Index. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/795754

title: The dictionary of political analysis
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/8305886

title: Dictionary of modern political ideologies
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/15223012

title: Dictionary of government and politics
description: A dictionary of the basic vocabulary used in the fields of government and politics, both in Britain and the United States. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/39231792

title: A glossary of political theory
description: This essential reference covers alphabetically both the major concepts in political theory and the key writers in the field.  Terms have been selected based upon the concepts most regularly used in teaching. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/124065199

title: The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Political Science
description: Containing more than 1,700 entries including new material on topics such as NGOs, butterfly ballots, decentralisation, ethnic cleansing, and direct action, this dictionary has been written by a leadingteam of political scientists and covers political thinkers, institutions, and concepts. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/53153124

title: The Blackwell dictionary of political science: a user's guide to its terms
description: The Blackwell Dictionary of Political Science provides students and general readers with a clear and lively introduction to the terminology of political science. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/183337760

title: The Palgrave Macmillan dictionary of political thought
description: Some 1790 entries cover every aspect of political thought, defining concepts and ideologies, surveying the arguments on issues, giving capsule histories of political institutions, and summarizing (with newly expanded treatment) the thought of major political theorists. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/69332323

title: A Dictionary of Modern Politics
description: A comprehensive guide to the complex ideology/terminology which surrounds the world of politics. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/47637749

title: The Commonwealth Yearbook
description: Issued by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, 1987-current [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/15708740

title: Encyclopedia of adolescence
description: 
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/772633375

title: Handbook of Canadian public administration
description: The Handbook of Canadian Public Administration is a comprehensive analysis of public management and government in Canada today. The text exposes students to key issues in public administration from public service to workplace equity. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1035229526

title: European Yearbook = Annuaire europeen
description: Published by the Council of Europe, 1975-2010 [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1481461

title: Yearbook of the United Nations
description: The Yearbook is the principal reference work on the United Nations and provides a detailed overview of the Organization's concerns and activities.  Each includes all major General Assembly, Security Council and Economic and Social Council resolutions. 1946-2007 [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1768016

title: Yearbook of International Organizations
description: 1962-current, published by the Union of International Association [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/896597499

title: Who's who in world politics: from 1860 to the present day
description: 1860-1996, [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/252987888

title: Statistical Yearbook - United Nations
description: 2006-current; The Statistical Yearbook is an annual compilation of a wide range of international economic, social and environmental statistics on over 200 countries and areas, compiled from sources including UN agencies and other international, national and specialized organizations. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/427406283

title: The Statesman's Year-book
description: Statistical and historical annual of the states of the world. 1917-current [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/213527231

title: Handbook of political theory
description: The Handbook is divided into five parts which together serve to illustrate: - the diversity of political theorizing - the substantive theories that provide an over-aching analysis of the nature/or justification of the state and political life - the political theories that have been either formulated or resurgent in recent years - the current state of the central debates within contemporary political theory - the history of western political thought and its interpretations - traditions in political thought outside a western perspective. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/53192013

title: European political facts of the twentieth century
description: A wide-ranging and comprehensive work of reference on Europe in the 20th century. There are sections on heads of state and ministers, elections, political parties, constitutions, wars, and treaties, among many others. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/44446743

title: Europa World plus
description: Europa World is the online version of The Europa world year book and Europa Publications' nine-volume Regional Surveys of the World series. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/290961197

title: Europa world year book
description: 1989-2005 [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/19757085

title: World Constitutions illustrated: contemporary and historical documents
description: Contains the current constitution for every country, constitutional histories, texts on constitutional law, links to scholarly articles about constitutional development, and a bibliography of selected constitutional books. Browsable by country or resource. [Database]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/608083946

title: African contemporary record: annual Survey and documents
description: 1968-2002 [Vanier -print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/499433323

title: Political Handbook of the World
description: The Political Handbook of the World contains entries on countries and territories around the world. It covers each country's political parties and includes names of key ambassadors, international memberships, and profiles intergovernmental organizations. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/74906583

title: The Oxford handbook of political science
description: Drawing on the rich resources of the ten-volume series of The Oxford Handbooks of Political Science , this one-volume distillation provides a comprehensive overview of all the main branches of contemporary political science: political theory; political institutions; political behavior; comparative politics; international relations; political economy; law and politics; public policy; contextual political analysis; and political methodology. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/301888783

title: 21st century political science: a reference handbook
description: Intended as a resource for undergraduates and beginning-level graduate students, this two-volume reference offers expositions on 99 carefully selected topics. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/670048672

title: Explorations: a navigator's guide to quantitative research in Canadian political science
description: [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/38753683

title: Doing research in political science
description: The text introduces the main theories and methodologies used in the discipline. Part 1: methodological framework, Part 2: statistical methods,  Part 3: application [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/61478397

title: Writing a research paper in political science: a practical guide to inquiry, structure, and methods
description: Helps you master writing, methodological, and research skills with ease.  How to develop a research question, write a literature review, design a study, analyze information, write introductory and concluding sections, and edit and revise a paper. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/70691921

title: Political theory: methods and approaches
description: Connections between political theory and other disciplines - including moral philosophy, the empirical social sciences, the history of political thought, the world of 'real' politics, critical social theory, and ideology. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/213600352

title: Research Methods for political science: quantitative and qualitative approaches
description: How to conduct poli sci research. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/273823397

title: The craft of political research
description: Emphasizing the internal logic of research methods and the collaborative nature of the research process; design behind interesting questions, problems in measurement and analysis, and key statistical methods. [print book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/462909876

title: Lexibase:  Collins multi-language dictionaries
description: A collection of online reference language dictionaries (French, English, Spanish, Italian, German and English Thesaurus).
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://concordia.dictionary.ent.reverso.net/Home

title: Fit: episodes in the history of the body
description: Originally produced in 1991. Combines archival images and research to chart the development of American attitudes towards, and definitions of, physical fitness and the human body.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/642354402

title: APA educational psychology handbook
description: 
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/761879119

title: Encyclopedia of cognitive behavior therapy
description: 
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/262679955

title: Encyclopedia of infant and early childhood development
description: 
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/231851825

title: Encyclopedia of social psychology
description: 
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/192175326

title: Business Source Complete
description: Provides full-text to more than 1,650 scholarly business journals including market research reports and company reports from Datamonitor, as well as fulltext access to a collection of books. This database offers information in nearly every area of business including management, economics, finance, accounting, international business, and more.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/v2/oclc/61711083

title: The Plant List
description: List of all known plant species, their scientific names and synonyms.
link: https://www.theplantlist.org

title: Volunteer Canada | Volunteer/Benevoles Canada
description: Volunteer Canada is the national voice for volunteerism in Canada. Since 1977, the organization has been committed to increasing and supporting volunteerism and civic participation through ongoing programs, special projects and national initiatives, by developing resources and by engaging in research and training across the country.
link: https://volunteer.ca

title: Imagine Canada's Nonprofit Library Commons
description: Operated by Imagine Canada, Imagine Canada's Nonprofit Library provides recommended resource lists and a searchable database to the John Hodgson Library collection, a comprehensive collection of Canadian research and practical resources in the following areas: Governance and Accountability, Philanthropy and Fundraising, Organizational Management, Human Resources and Volunteerism.
link: https://library.imaginecanada.ca

title: Imagine Canada
description: Imagine Canada is a national registered charity with offices in Toronto, Calgary and Ottawa. Our cause is Canada’s charities and nonprofits. 'It is our mission to support and strengthen charities and nonprofits so they can, in turn, support the Canadians and communities they serve. We work on a variety of issues and challenges that face the sector, often in partnership, including funding, human resources, volunteerism, governance, sector accountability and better understanding of the sector through research.'
link: https://www.imaginecanada.ca

title: Charity Village
description: At CharityVillage.com® you'll find more than 3,500 pages of news, jobs, resources, how-to articles, volunteer and event listings, educational opportunities, and much more.
link: https://www.charityvillage.ca

title: Canada Revenue Agency - Charities Directorate
description: This is an A-Z listing of registered charities and non-profit organisations.
link: https://www.canada.ca/en/services/taxes/charities.html

title: Altruvest Charitable Services
description: Altruvest Charitable Services is a registered Canadian charity founded in 1994 by a group of business leaders. 'Our mission is to expand the talent pool, and enhance the governance skills of charitable sector boards and senior leaders, fostering more effective charities and stronger Canadian communities.'
link: https://www.altruvest.org

title: AllianceOnline
description: The Alliance is the national voice and catalyst for the field of capacity building. We improve the effectiveness of individuals, groups, and organizations helping nonprofits and communities achieve positive social change.
link: https://www.allianceonline.org

title: AICPA: Historical Accounting Standards
description: The AICPA has given permission to the University of Mississippi Libraries to post, in digital format, the older Statements on Auditing Standards, 1(1973)-101 (2003), as they were originally issued, and the noncurrent annual volumes of the Professional Standards: U.S. Auditing Standards (1976-2007). For later SASs and current U.S. Auditing Standards, please consult the AICPA Web site.
link: https://clio.lib.olemiss.edu/cdm/landingpage/collection/aicpa

title: Taxes, Income Tax, Tax Rates, Tax updates Business News, Economy
description: This site is run by a company called World Tax Inc. It aims to provide information on tax systems in many countries. Click on the chosen country link to access information on tax, tax news, tax rates, tax law, tax experts, VAT and financial facts. As well as country sections, there are features on the history of taxation, tax rates around the world, a basic course in bookkeeping and tax news. Useful for accountancy students or would-be investors.
link: https://www.worldwide-tax.com

title: Investext
description: Investext provides investment, company and industry reports from over 500 brokerage firms in North America, Asia, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://www.mergentonline.com

title: Canadian Periodical Index - CPI-Q
description: CPI.Q provides coverage of all subject areas with an emphasis on Canadian and international issues. It provides citations to more than 400 English and French language journals and magazines, including approximately 30 American titles and approximately 80 business periodicals. CPI.Q provides the fulltext in ASCII format of articles and reports from approximately 160 of the publications. CPI.Q includes the fulltext of the Globe and Mail, from 1997 onwards, excluding the Report on Business section, sports, letters to the editor, newswires, and paid sections (obituaries, wedding/birth announcements, classifieds).
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://infotrac.galegroup.com/itweb/concordi_main?db=CPI

title: Proquest Business Databases
description: ProQuest Business Databases includes the following databases: ABI/INFORM Complete, Canadian Newsstand, CBCA Business, CBCA Reference and Current Events, Hoover's Company Profiles, ProQuest Asian Business and Reference, ProQuest European Business, ProQuest Dissertations and Theses, ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Washington Post.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://search.proquest.com/business/advanced?accountid=10246

title: Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
description: The IRS is a bureau of the USA Department of the Treasury.  Its role is to help taxpayers understand and meet their tax responsibilities and enforce the law in this area.
link: https://www.irs.ustreas.gov

title: Tax and Accounting Sites Directory
description: Tax and Accounting Sites Directory is a comprehensive index of web-based tax and accounting resources. The directory is designed to be a starting point for people who are searching for tax and accounting information, products, and services.
link: https://www.taxsites.com

title: Corporate Income Tax (CCRA)
description: Canada Revenue Agency - information, guidance and services on tax issues for corporations.
link: https://www.cra-arc.gc.ca/t2return

title: Canada Revenue Agency
description: The Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) administers tax laws for the Government of Canada and for most provinces and territories; and various social and economic benefit and incentive programs delivered through the tax system.
link: https://www.cra-arc.gc.ca/menu-e.html

title: Canada Business Network - Government Services for Entrepreneurs ...
description: Canada Business Network promotes entrepreneurship and innovation, and provides assistance through an organized network of service centres across Canada. There is a centre in each province and territory working with partners in many communities across their region, providing numerous service access points.
link: https://www.canadabusiness.ca/eng

title: Ernst and Young personal tax calculators and tax rates
description: 
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://edu.knotia.ca/Tools/Tax/Calculators/Taxcalc.cfm

title: TaxMatters@EY
description: Ernst and Young's monthly tax newsletter.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://edu.knotia.ca/knowledge/Home.aspx?productid=547

title: Provincial Taxes Electronic Reference Library (PERL)
description: An up-to-date source of provincial tax reference materials — including corporate and personal income tax, fuel tax, sales tax, tobacco tax, and more. Contains commentary and analysis; statutes and regulations; bulletins, forms, guides, and memoranda; comparative tables that compare the tax rates and treatments of similar items under different jurisdictions; tax rates and tools. Includes Commodity Tax News and TaxMatters@EY newsletters. All provinces and territories.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://edu.knotia.ca/knowledge/Home.aspx?productid=108

title: Excise and GST/HST News
description: Access quarterly news updates on Excise and GST/HST from Canada Revenue Agency.
link: https://www.cra-arc.gc.ca/formspubs/typ/gsthstnws-eng.html

title: Commodity tax news
description: Your best way to keep up-to-date with the latest important developments in GST/HST, as well as provincial sales taxes, and customs and trade. Includes Case Corner, which summarizes all recent commodity tax decisions, and What’s New, which lists recent government releases.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://edu.knotia.ca/knowledge/Home.aspx?productid=124

title: The practitioner's goods and services tax annotated with harmonized sales tax, 2011
description: The complete, authoritatively updated texts of the GST, HST and non-GST portions of the Excise Tax Act and Regulations, augmented by draft legislation, GST-related Remission Orders and Technical Notes - all cross-referenced with detailed annotations to related provisions, definitions, case annotations summarizing each case's relevance, memoranda, technical information bulletins, policy papers, forms, history and much more. The book also features a Topical Index, newly updated, comprising over 13,000 separate line entries with extensive references to all legislation, regulations and Canada Revenue Agency. publications.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/29970376

title: International Financial Reporting Standards (2010)
description: The complete set of International Financial Reporting Standards incorporating International Accounting Standards and Interpretations.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://edu.knotia.ca/knowledge/Home.aspx?productid=181

title: CPA Canada Standards and Guidance Collection (CPACHB)
description: The CPA Canada Standards and Guidance Collection contains documentation from the Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada (CPA Canada), including the CPA Canada Handbook.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://edu.knotia.ca/knowledge/Home.aspx?productid=1

title: Canadian Business Financing Handbook (CBF)
description: This handbook is your primary resource when you need to research the financial marketplace, identify the obstacles and pitfalls of financing, and understand the operational, legal and tax implications of financing in Canada.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://edu.knotia.ca/knowledge/Home.aspx?productid=130

title: FAQ/Finding Information About Psychological Tests
description: This page from the American Psychological Association provides guidance in using available resources to find psychological tests. Answers to frequently asked questions are provided.
link: https://www.apa.org/science/programs/testing/find-tests

title: Charles Darwin's Library
description: Digital collection of books owned by Charles Darwin. Also provides full transcriptions of his annotations and marks.
link: https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/collection/darwinlibrary

title: Wormatlas
description: Database of the behavioral and structural anatomy of Caenorhabditis elegans (transparent roundworm)
link: https://www.wormatlas.org

title: 100% woman: world of sports will never be the same
description: A post-operative transsexual, Canadian Michelle Dumares has provoked outrage by entering the sport of women's mountain bike racing.... Explores complex issues of gender identity.  Might work well with CBC's Too Fast To Be a Woman: https://www.cbc.ca/documentaries/passionateeyeshowcase/2011/toofast/
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/75523129

title: The concise Oxford Spanish dictionary
description: Completely updated to include the very latest vocabulary with 170,000 words and phrases; 240,000 translations
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/317747953

title: The Oxford Duden German Dictionary
description: Contains 260,000 words and phrases and 450,000 translations with comprehensive coverage of the general vocabulary of contemporary German and English.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/311791752

title: TERMIUM plus
description: Terminology database which provides definitions, contexts, examples of usage, observations and translation for over three million English and French terms as well as for 700 000 Spanish terms.
link: https://www.btb.termiumplus.gc.ca

title: The Routledge dictionary of politics
description: The essential guide to politics, its terminologies, ideologies and institutions. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/56551222

title: Collins English-Spanish, español-inglès
description: Based on the latest edition of the print dictionary published by Collins
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/427569659

title: The concise Oxford dictionary of politics
description: Contains more than 1,700 entries covering political thinkers, institutions, and concepts , including new material on topics such as NGOs, butterfly ballots, decentralisation, ethnic cleansing, and direct action. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/53153124

title: OBIS: Ocean Biogeographic Information System
description: Data on geographic distributions of many maring organisms.
link: https://www.iobis.org

title: The Oxford dictionary of sports science and medicine
description: 
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/83601146

title: Collins English-Italian, italiano-inglese
description: Based on the latest edition of the print dictionary published by Collins
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/896959132

title: Oxford Music Online, incl. Grove Music Online
description: A full text database of information on music and musicians, with links out to sound recordings.
link: https://www-oxfordmusiconline-com.lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca

title: The new Palgrave dictionary of economics online
description: An authoritative full-text resource tailored for researchers in economics, finance and other related disciplines.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/968345651

title: 
description: 
link: 

title: Science adventures : nature activities for young children / Elizabeth A. Sherwood, Robert A. Williams, Robert E. Rockwell
description: Webster 3rd Floor Curriculum Collection   LB 1139.5 S35S53 2008
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/154677888

title: World of Sports Science
description: Theoretical and practical treatment of all aspects of sports science and exercise physiology, kinesiology, and biomechanics.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/77071182

title: Encyclopedia of political science
description: The study of politics and the intersections of politics with other disciplines. Western and non-Western, national and international. [e-book]
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/655243130

title: Encyclopedia of the Bible and its Reception
description: Comprehensively records the current knowledge of the origins and development of the Bible in its Jewish and Christian canonical forms and documents the history of the Bible’s reception in Judaism and Christianity and Islam.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://www.degruyter.com/db/ebr

title: International Encyclopedia of Communication
description: Spans the breadth of communication studies, including coverage of theories, media and communication phenomena, research methods, problems, concepts, and geographical areas within communication studies.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/271856987

title: The Canadian Encyclopedia Online
description: An authoritative source of information on all things Canadian, the Canadian Encyclopedia includes illustrations, photographs, artwork, maps, video and audio clips of Canadian history and culture.
link: https://thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en

title: Learning circle : classroom activities on First Nations in Canada
description: Elementary-level learning exercises on First Nations.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/712851151

title: Motivate to communicate! : 300 games and activities for your child with autism / Simone Griffin and Dianne Sandler
description: RJ 506 A9G75 2010
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/319497634

title: ERIC
description: Education database. Enter your topic and limit to publication type: 160 Tests/Questionnaires
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://search.proquest.com/eric/advanced?accountid=10246

title: PsycInfo
description: Psychology database. Enter your topic and limit your search with phrase “in TM”. TM stands for Tests and measures. Example, “satisfaction in TM”.
link: https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://psycnet.apa.org/search/advanced

title: Mental Measurements Yearbook
description: Also known as “Buros”, this publication has reviews of tests.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/61398222

title: Test Link: the Database of the ETS Test Collection
description: The ETS, Educational Testing Service, has a collection of more than 25,000 tests and other measurement devices. Its database, Test Link, has information on standardized tests and research instruments. Going back to the early 1900s, the Test Collection at ETS is the largest compilation of such materials in the world. You can use Test Link to identify tests in your subject area.
link: https://www.ets.org/test-collection.html

title: Big book of conflict resolution games : quick, effective activities to improve communication, trust, and collaboration / Mary Scannell
description: Webster 4th Floor HD 42 S27 2010
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/489010361

title: Tree Encyclopedia
description: Over 3,500 pictures of different types of trees
link: https://www.cirrusimage.com/trees.htm

title: Metcalf Collection: resource on cicadas, leafhoppers, planthoppers, spittlebus and treehoppers
description: Information on cicadas, leafhoppers, planthoppers, spittlebugs, and treehoppers, including a searchable database for retrieving literature on Auchenorrhyncha.
link: https://www.lib.ncsu.edu/specialcollections/digital/metcalf/index.html

title: John James Audubon's Birds of America
description: Online version of John James Audubon's Birds of America. It is from the 1840 edition of Audubon's complete seven volume text, and presents Audubon's images and original text descriptions. Bird species can be found listed alphabetically, or categorized by family.
link: https://web4.audubon.org/bird/boa/boa_index.html

title: Picture book activities : fun and games for young children based on 50 favourite children's books / by Trish Kuffner
description: Webster 4th Floor LB 1140.5 R4K84 2002
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/48670730

title: Encyclopedia of Earth
description: A free encyclopedia with a wide range of scholarly articles on biodiversity, ecology, zoology, climate change, pollution, etc.
link: https://www.eoearth.org

title: UniProt
description: Protein sequence and functional information.
link: https://www.uniprot.org

title: Fun and games : 100 sport-related activities for ages 5-16 / Anthony Dowson, Keith E.J. Morris
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 709.2 D69 2005
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/56058288

title: Healthy breaks : wellness activities for the classroom / Jenine M. De Marzo
description: Webster Curriculum Lab LB 1587 A3D46 2010
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/423217157

title: 0) Open Folklore
description: A project from the American Folklore Society and Indiana University Bloomington Libraries, described as “a prototype of a new scholarly resource called Open Folklore. The vision for this open-access online portal for folklore studies is to make a greater number and variety of useful resources, both published and unpublished, available for the field of folklore studies and the communities with which folklore scholars partner.”
link: https://www.openfolklore.org

title: Grasshoppers: Their Biology, Identification and Management
description: Comprehensive information on the biology, ecology, identification and management of grasshoppers and Mormon crickets in North America.
link: https://www.sidney.ars.usda.gov/grasshopper

title: Freshwater and Marine Image Bank
description: Includes images of fish, shellfish, marine mammals, fish hatcheries, dams, freshwater species, (etc.) from the 18th - 20th century.
link: https://content.lib.washington.edu/fishweb

title: Amazing Cells
description: Activities and videos about the structure and function of organelles and communication on a molecular level.
link: https://teach.genetics.utah.edu/content/cells

title: Flora of North America
description: Information on the names, taxonomic relationships, continent-wide distributions, and morphological characteristics of all plants native and naturalized found in North America north of Mexico
link: https://floranorthamerica.org/Published_Volumes

title: Index to American Botanical Literature
description: “The Index contains entries dealing with various aspects of extant and fossil North and South American plants and fungi, including systematics and floristics, morphology, and ecology, as well as economic botany and general botany.”
link: https://sweetgum.nybg.org/iabl

title: Instructor
description: Published by Scholastic, this magazine includes hands-on, curriculum-based learning activities for every grade level.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/664161644

title: Creative activities for young children
description: Webster Curriculum Lab LB 1139.35 A37M365 2009
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/213352568

title: Western Soundscape Archive
description: Audio recordings of animals and environments throughout the Western United States and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
link: https://westernsoundscape.org

title: 100 ideas for teaching physical development / Simon Brownhill
description: Webster Curriculum Lab LB 1139.3 G7B76 2009
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/277203785

title: Singing Insects of North America
description: Helps identify songs of crickets, katydids, and cicadas from America north of Mexico.
link: https://entomology.ifas.ufl.edu/walker/buzz

title: Therapeutic recreation journal
description: Available via the SportDiscus Database, you can search the contents of this journal online.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1775922

title: Therapeutic recreation journal
description: Vanier 2nd floor RM 736.7 T48+ (1977-ONWARD)
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1775922

title: Lifelong leisure skills and lifestyles for persons with developmental disabilities / by Stuart J. Schleien ...
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 183.5 L54 1995
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/31288647

title: Settle conflicts right now! : a step-by-step guide for K-6 classrooms / Jan L. Osier and Harold P. Fox
description: Webster Curriculum Lab LB 3013.3 O85 2001
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/44952130

title: Creating caring schools : peace-promoting activities for all seasons / Hetty van Gurp
description: Webster Curriculum Lab LB 3013.3 V34 2007 Kit
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/86225926

title: Holiday games and activities / Barbara Wnek
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 443 W58 1992
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/24285649

title: Big book of icebreakers : quick, fun activities for energizing meetings and workshops / Edie West
description: Vanier 3rd Floor HF 5734.5 W47 2007
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/462991606

title: Movement approach to games for children / Peter H. Werner
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 443 W443
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/4549377

title: Physical activity interventions in children and adolescents / Dianne S. Ward, Ruth P. Saunders, Russell R. Pate
description: Vanier 3rd Floor RJ 133 W37 2007
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/70258813

title: Trivia by the dozen : encouraging Interaction and reminiscence in managed care
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 184 V47 2007
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/156823815

title: Active games / City of Toronto, Department of Parks and Recreation
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1203 T67X
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1330326

title: Leisure education : a manual of activities and resources / compiled and edited by Norma J. Stumbo and Steven R. Thompson
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 14.4 L44X 1986
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/14926632

title: Teamwork and teamplay : games and activities for building and training teams / Sivasailam “Thiagi” Thiagarajan, Glenn Parker
description: Vanier 3rd Floor HD 66 T4665 1999
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/40734978

title: More games trainers play : experiential learning exercises / Edward E. Scannell and John W. Newstrom
description: Vanier 3rd Floor HM 133 S3 1983
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/9394640

title: Not just games : strategic uses of experiential learning to drive business results / Timothy A. Rumsey
description: Vanier 3rd Floor HF 5549.5 T7R86 1996
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/34606560

title: Games for junior and senior high schools. / by Hazel A. Richardson
description: Vanier Circulation Desk LB 3031 R52X Game
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/896508009

title: Games for the elementary school grades. / by Hazel A. Richardson
description: Vanier Circulation Desk LB 3031 R5 1951 Game
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/896508008

title: Activity gourmet / Peggy Powers
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1201 P69 1991
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/25388892

title: Cooperative games and sports : joyful activities for everyone / Terry Orlick
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1201 O7 2006
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/62738574

title: Second cooperative sports and games book / Terry Orlick
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1201 O723 1982
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/7999114

title: Cooperative sports and games book : challenge without competition / Terry Orlick
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1201 O7
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/3607531

title: Children's games in street and playground : chasing, catching, seeking, hunting, racing, duelling, exerting, daring, guessing, acting, pretending / by Iona and Peter Opie
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1204.43 O65 1984
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/10457800

title: School game book, by Margaret E. Mulac and Marian S. Holmes; illustrated by George E. Mathews
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1205 M8
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/492896

title: Games and stunts for schools, camps, and playgrounds, by Margaret E. Mulac. Illustrated by Julianne
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1201 M813
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/492289

title: Great special events and activities! / by Morton, Prosser, and Spangler
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1201 M715 1991
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/24933469

title: Creative play activities for children with disabilities : a resource book for teachers and parents / Lisa Rappaport Morris, Linda Schulz
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 183.6 M67 1989
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/18588202

title: How to change the games children play / by G. S. Don Morris ; illustrated by Mark Sullivan
description: Vanier 3rd Floor LB 1137 M675
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/2371784

title: Changing kids' games / G.S. Don Morris, Jim Stiehl
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 443 M66 1989
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/18259548

title: Game finder : a leader's guide to great activities / Annette C. Moore
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 181.2 M66 1992
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/27235139

title: Quick meeting openers for busy managers : more than 50 icebreakers, energizers, and other creative activities that get results / Brian Cole Miller
description: Vanier 3rd Floor HF 5734.5 M55 2008
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/190860108

title: Street games / Alan Milberg
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1203 M63
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1174418

title: Everyone wins! : cooperative games and activities / Josette and Ba Luvmour
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1203 L89 2007
Webster 3rd Floor Curriculum Collection GV 1203 L89 2007 c. 2
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/884849562

title: Learning disabilities and games / Sophie L. Lovinger ; ill. by Shurlee Lee
description: Webster 4th Floor LB 1137 L7
Vanier 3rd Floor LB 1137 L7 c.2
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/4496936

title: Games for people with sensory impairments : strategies for including individuals of all ages / Lauren J. Lieberman, Jim F. Cowart
description: Vanier 3rd Floor HV 1767 L54 1996
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/34191633

title: Innovative games / Brenda Lichtman
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 443 L5 1993
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/27676798

title: More play helps : play ideas for children with special needs / Roma Lear.
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 183.6 L43 1990
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/26859991

title: Play helps : toys and activities for children with special needs / Roma Lear ; illustrated by Gillian Hunter
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 183.6 L44 1996
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/36217621

title: Inclusive physical activity : a lifetime of opportunities / Susan L. Kasser, Rebecca K. Lytle
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 443 K36 2005
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/58600188

title: Inclusive games / Susan L. Kasser
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 709.2 K38 1995
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/32429966

title: Icebreakers : a sourcebook of games, exercises and simulations / Ken Jones
description: Vanier 3rd Floor HM 132 J66 1991
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/24686205

title: More team-building activities for every group / by Alanna Jones
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1203 J74 2002
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/50773879

title: Team-building activities for every group / by Alanna Jones
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1203 J77 1999
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/42722955

title: International games : building skills through multicultural play / Gayle L. Horowitz
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1203 H626 2009
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/232785801

title: John's Pile of Workshop Exercises
description: Extensive compilation of workshop exercises by an AHSC MA graduate.
link: https://www.concordia.ca/content/dam/library/docs/research-guides/applied-human-science/Resource_Tool_Kit_-John_Gancz_HSI_2006_.pdf

title: Plant Digital Archive and Reference Collection Home
description: Images from hundreds of species of plants from all over the world. The images are digitized micrographs of parts of plants that were sectioned, stained, and permanently mounted to a glass slide.
link: https://swingle.miami.edu

title: Group activities to include students with special needs : developing social interactive skills / Julia Wilkins
description: Webster Curriculum Lab LC 4026 W54 2001
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/43561574

title: Activity-based approach to developing young children's social emotional competence / by Jane Squires and Diane Bricker
description: Webster Curriculum Lab LC 4019.2 S66 2007
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/71790115

title: Multicultural projects index : things to make and do to celebrate festivals, cultures, and holidays around the world / Mary Anne Pilger
description: Webster Curriculum Lab LC 1099 P55 2005
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/59818136

title: Educating the whole child : social development and self-awareness activities for the early years / Susanna Palomares, Dianne Schilling
description: Webster Curriculum Lab LB 1139.35 A37P35 2008
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/234146290

title: Childminder's guide to play and activities / Allison Lee
description: Webster Curriculum Lab HQ 774.5 L44 2007
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/123955145

title: Considering others : learning social skills through teamwork ; a life skills curriculum for all ages / by Shelley MacKay Freeman
description: Webster Curriculum Lab HQ 783 F69 2008
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/240249417

title: Games for motor learning / Ronald Dienstmann
description: Webster Curriculum Lab GV 443 D52 2008
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/230729670

title: Character-building activities : teaching responsibility, interaction, and group dynamics / Judy Demers
description: Webster Curriculum Lab LC 268 D37 2008
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/183179455

title: 101 best action games for boys / by Lillian and Godfrey Frankel ; art adapted from drawings by John Fischetti
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1203 F64 1968
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/440643

title: Red rover, red rover : children's games played in Canada / Edith Fowke.
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1204 I5F68X 1988
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/27147578

title: Encyclopedia of icebreakers : structured activities that warm-up, motivate, challenge, acquaint, and energize / Sue Forbess-Greene
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1201 F597 1983
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/29373152

title: Active games and contests (2nd ed.) [by] Richard J. Donnelly, William G. Helms [and] Elmer D. Mitchell.
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 171 D6
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/376577

title: Learning about human behavior through active games / by Bryant J. Cratty
description: Vanier 3rd Floor BF 723 S28C7
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/801666

title: Chicken and noodle games : 141 fun activities with innovative equipment / John Byl ... [et al.]
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 1201 C525 2007
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/76481451

title: Games and activities : that serve a purpose / Louis V. Brackett, William R. Richards
description: Vanier 3rd Floor RC 489 R4B7X 1984
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/12645972

title: Rhythmic activities and dance / John Price Bennett, Pamela Coughenour Riemer
description: Vanier 3rd Floor GV 452 B45 1995
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/31328595

title: Activities linking science with math, K-4 / John Eichinger
description: 
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/301948220

title: SeniorACT
description: Activities for seniors
link: https://www.senioract.com

title: Ant and The Grasshopper
description: Ice breakers for any group
link: https://www.antgrasshopper.com/index.html

title: Ultimate Camp Resource
description: Group activities focused for teens
link: https://www.ultimatecampresource.com

title: Business Balls
description: Team building games, business games and activities for team building ...
link: https://www.businessballs.com/teambuildinggames.htm

title: Talking Glossary of Genetic Terms
description: Definitions, images, animations, and videos of geneticists describing terms.
link: https://www.genome.gov/glossary

title: Creative Commons Canada - Licences Explained
description: Description of 'a set of user-friendly licences which... enable creators to share their work under certain conditions'.
link: https://creativecommons.ca/index.php?p=explained

title: 4) Thinking About Open Access -- Concretely
description: a reply to the above article, in the same issue of FQS, by Wolff-Michael Roth
link: https://www.qualitative-research.net/index.php/fqs/article/view/117/243

title: 2) The effect of scholarly communication practices on engagement with open access: An Australian study of three disciplines
description: 2009 Phd Thesis. Compares the publishing and communication practices of researchers in Sociology, Chemistry and Computer Science.
link: https://digitalcollections.anu.edu.au/handle/1885/49304

title: 3) 'Open Access' and its Social Context: New Colonialism in the Making?
description: another take on the issue from the March 2006 issue of Forum: Qualitative Social Research. This article does not discuss open access to sociology materials, but rather deals with 'the wider sociological nature of the ongoing negotiations of the control over scientific communication channels of which the 'open access' movement is a part.'
link: https://www.qualitative-research.net/index.php/fqs/article/view/116/241

title: 7) Mana'o Self Archiving Repository
description: a proposal to revive Mana'o.....
link: https://nodivide.wordpress.com/2009/08/26/manao-self-archiving-repository

title: 5) Please submit to Mana'o
description: from the Open Access Anthropology blog. A post announcing the launch of Mana'o, a repository for anthropology, in November 2007.
link: https://blog.openaccessanthropology.org/2007/10/10/please-submit-to-manao

title: 4) Mandated Self Archiving, Anthropology and Power
description: from Another Anthro Blog -- just a sample of the ongoing discussions on open access and self archiving.
link: https://nodivide.wordpress.com/2009/05/15/mandated-self-archiving-anthropology-and-the-military

title: Supporting and enhancing scholarship in the digital age: the role of open access institutional repositories
description: from the Canadian Journal of Communication, vol. 29 no. 3, 2004. Dated but informative as to intent of institutional repositories. (Click on 'View/Open' at bottom of page for FULLTEXT)
link: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/2786

title: 3) Access and Accountability: The Ecology of Information Sharing in the Digital Age
description: from Anthropology News April 2009. Continues and broadens the OA debate.
link: https://www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/fulltext/122295118/PDFSTART

title: 1) Five short pieces about Open Access and the AAA
description: all from the February 2008 issue of  Anthropology News.
link: https://www.aaanet.org/issues/anthronews/AN-highlights-2008.cfm

title: 2) ANTHROPOLOGY OF/IN CIRCULATION: The Future of Open Access and Scholarly Societies
description: from Cultural Anthropology August 2008.
link: https://escholarship.org/uc/item/9pz8d25x

title: Open Access Overview (definition, introduction)
description: by Peter Suber, with a focus on 'open access to peer-reviewed research articles and their preprints.'
link: https://www.earlham.edu/~peters/fos/overview.htm

title: Google Scholar
description: So far the best search tool for OA articles, though searches cannot be specifically limited to OA content.
link: https://scholar.google.ca

title: DOAJ - Directory of open access journals
description: Search for or browse open access journals. Also allows searching of contents for some of the journals.
link: https://www.doaj.org

title: OpenDOAR Directory of Open Access Repositories
description: Search for or browse open access repositories
link: https://www.opendoar.org

title: SPARC Canadian Author Addendum
description: provides context and instructions for using SPARC Canadian Author Addendum to secure your rights as the author of a journal article
link: https://carl-abrc.ca/uploads/pdfs/EngPubAgree.pdf

title: SHERPA -RoMEO
description: Journal publishers' policies on self-archiving
link: https://www.sherpa.ac.uk/romeo

title: SHERPA - JULIET
description: Research funders' open access policies
link: https://www.sherpa.ac.uk/juliet

title: Open Journal Systems
description: Software to create your own OA journal
link: https://pkp.sfu.ca/?q=ojs

title: Concordia Library Open Access page
description: Concordia-specific information and developments, including info about our upcoming institutional repository, will be posted here. Includes info about OA search tools, repositories, directories and funding agencies.
link: https://library.concordia.ca/research/open-access

title: University Philosophy Departments
description: A collection of links to web pages for university departments worldwide.
link: https://users.ox.ac.uk/~worc0337/phil_universities.html

title: The President's Council on Bioethics
description: Established on November 28, 2001, the Council advises the President of the United States on ethical issues related to advances in biomedical science and technology.
link: https://www.bioethics.gov

title: Philosophy Organizations Index
description: Alphabetical, topical and philosopher listings.
link: https://www.erraticimpact.com/html/organizations_a_ar.htm

title: Philosophy News
description: Provides philosophy news and announcements from around the world.
link: https://philosophynews.com

title: Philosophical Books
description: Features scholarly book reviews of works in philosophy.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/49896447

title: Philosophical Associations and Societies
description: 
link: https://www.earlham.edu/~peters/gpi/ass.htm

title: Canadian Philosophical Association
description: 
link: https://www.acpcpa.ca

title: American Philosophical Society
description: 
link: https://www.amphilsoc.org

title: UC Irvine Critical Theory Institute Resource
description: Covers both theories and theorists from the nineteenth and twentierh centuries.
link: https://www.humanities.uci.edu/critical/resources.html

title: Friedrich Nietzsche Society
description: 
link: https://fns.org.uk

title: Kant on the Web
description: 
link: https://www.hkbu.edu.hk/~ppp/Kant.html

title: William James
description: 
link: https://www.uky.edu/~eushe2/Pajares/james.html

title: The Center for Dewey Studies
description: 
link: https://deweycenter.siu.edu

title: Philosophers and Philosophies
description: 
link: https://www.earlham.edu/~peters/gpi/philo.htm

title: Yahoo: Philosophers
description: 
link: https://dir.yahoo.com/Arts/Humanities/Philosophy/Philosophers

title: Compendium of Philosophers
description: 
link: https://philtar.ucsm.ac.uk/compendium_of_philosophers/a

title: The Philosophical Lexicon
description: 
link: https://www.philosophicallexicon.com

title: The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy - IEP
description: 
link: https://www.iep.utm.edu

title: Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
description: 
link: https://plato.stanford.edu

title: Oxford English Dictionary
description: 
link: https://www.oed.com

title: Dictionary of Philosophy of Mind
description: 
link: https://philosophy.uwaterloo.ca/MindDict

title: Dictionary of Philosophical Terms and Names
description: This dictionary covers over 1,000 entries. Definitions are clear and concise and many biographical entries include portraits. Generous cross-references and links to other online sources are included.
link: https://www.philosophypages.com/dy

title: Yahoo: Philosophy
description: 
link: https://dir.yahoo.com/Arts/Humanities/philosophy

title: Philosophy Research Base: worldwide philosophy resources
description: 
link: https://www.erraticimpact.com

title: Philosophy of Law
description: 
link: https://www.earlham.edu/~peters/courses/law/lawlinks.htm

title: Johns Hopkins Guide to Literary Theory and Criticism
description: An international, encyclopedic guide to the important figures, schools, and movements in literary theory. Its chronological range extends from Plato and Aristotle to the present.
link: https://litguide.press.jhu.edu

title: Guide to Philosophy on the Internet
description: Users can browse through an extensive list of categories related to philosophy, including guides, journals, e-texts, newsgroups, bibliographies, associations, dictionaries, and individual philosophers. Prepared by Peter Suber, Philosophy Department, Earlham College.
link: https://www.earlham.edu/~peters/philinks.htm

title: Ethics Updates
description: It is intended to provide updates on current literature, both popular and professional, that relates to ethics.
link: https://ethics.sandiego.edu

title: Episteme Links: philosophy resources on Internet
description: It includes thousands of sorted links to philosophy resources on the Internet.
link: https://www.epistemelinks.com/Main/MainTopi.aspx

title: Contemporary philosophy, Critical Theory and Postmodern Thought
description: Sponsored by the School of Education at the University of Colorado, Denver, this Web site has many links to individual theorists, contemporary general critical theory and philosophy resources, and links to online readings. (CandRL; News, March 2002)
link: https://carbon.ucdenver.edu/~mryder/itc/postmodern.html

title: Springer Images
description: Thousands of free photos, graphs, histograms, figures, and tables from Springer journals.
link: https://www.springerimages.com

title: Voice of the Shuttle: Other Literatures in English
description: A directory of resources for the study of African, Australian, Caribbean, Irish, Scottish, South Asian and Welsh literatures.
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=2748#top

title: Postcolonial Studies Website
description: Developed by Deepika Bahri of the English Department at Emory University. Features in-depth sections on postcolonial authors and theorists, including articles, bibliographies and biographies.
link: https://www.emory.edu/ENGLISH/Bahri

title: islandIreland: Resources for Irish Literature
description: Includes links to articles, bibliographies, biographies, interviews, online texts, and some multimedia files.
link: https://islandireland.com/Pages/lit.html

title: Irish Literature, Mythology, Folklore and Drama
description: Organized into five sections: literature, mythology, folklore, theatre and fine arts. The substantial literature section includes links to general and author-specific resources.
link: https://www.luminarium.org/mythology/ireland

title: South African Literature
description: Directory prepared by the Stanford University Libraries.
link: https://www-sul.stanford.edu/depts/ssrg/africa/southafrica/rsalit.html

title: Africa South of the Sahara: Literature
description: Directory prepared by the Stanford University Libraries.
link: https://www-sul.stanford.edu/depts/ssrg/africa/lit.html

title: Writers In Electronic Residence (WIER)
description: 'Writers In Electronic Residence (WIER) connects students across Canada with writers, teachers and one another in an animated exchange of original writing and commentary. The writers, who are all well-known Canadian authors, join classrooms electronically to read and consider the students' work, offer reactions and ideas, and guide discussions between the students.'
link: https://www.wier.ca

title: Celebrating Women's Achievements - Women in Canadian Life and Society, Music and Literature
description: 'Canadian women have contributed to Canada's musical heritage as performers, composers or songwriters and to Canada's literary heritage as writers and poets. Biographies have also been included for a selection of lesser known women from across the country who through their strength, courage and determination have made significant contributions to the development of Canadian life and society. With a few exceptions, these 'pioneers' were all born before 1900.'
link: https://www.collectionscanada.gc.ca/women/002026-222-e.html

title: Inventory of Canadian Digital Initiatives
description: From the National Library of Canada, the Inventory of Canadian Digital Initiatives 'provides descriptions of Canadian information resources created for the Web, including general digital collections, resources centered around a particular theme, and reference sources and databases.'
link: https://publications.gc.ca/site/eng/277122/publication.html

title: SF Canada
description: Founded in 1989, this is 'Canada's National Association for Speculative Fiction Professionals.' Some online short fiction.
link: https://www.sfcanada.ca

title: A History of Italian-Canadian Writing
description: By Joseph Pivato of Athabaska University
link: https://www.athabascau.ca/cll/research/hisitcan.htm

title: Early Canadiana Online
description: 'Early Canadiana Online (ECO) is a digital library of primary sources in Canadian history from the first European contact to the early 20th century. The collection is particularly strong in the subject areas of literature, women's history, travel and exploration, native studies and the history of French Canada.'
link: https://www.canadiana.ca

title: Canadian Literature Archive
description: A project of the English Department of the University of Manitoba, the 'Canadian Literature Archive has been online since October 4, 1994 and is a repository for information about Canadian writers, novelists, poets, playwrights, essayists, Canadian literary organizations, magazines, publications, texts and library archives.'
link: https://umanitoba.ca/outreach/canlit/resources.shtml

title: Canadian Literature: A Quarterly of Criticism and Review
description: Features selected sample articles and reviews from the Journal. Contains the full tables of contents from each issue since 1959.
link: https://canlit.ca

title: Canadian Bound
description: 'Celebrating our literary achievements,' this site is 'devoted to the readership and promotion of contemporary Canadian authors and their works.'
link: https://www.canadianbound.com

title: Canadian Poetry Online
description: Canadian Poetry is produced by the University of Toronto Libraries. Many people have contributed to CanPoetry over the years in many capacities : Peter Clinton, Ian Lancashire, Sian Meikle, Maureen Morin, and Sophia Kaszuba.
link: https://canpoetry.library.utoronto.ca

title: University of Toronto: Books Online
description: 'Books Online are books that have been digitized, from the University of Toronto Libraries. They are freely available online and out-of-copyright. The full text of these books can be searched.'
link: https://link.library.utoronto.ca/booksonline

title: Schoenberg Center for Electronic Text and Image
description: established in 1996 at University of Pennsylvania Library, SCETI's mission is 'to provide the scholarly community with web access to virtual facsimiles of original texts, documents, and sources from Penn's collections.' These include English Renaissance texts and Women's Studies.
link: https://dewey.library.upenn.edu/sceti/flash.cfm

title: Project Gutenberg
description: Founded in 1971 by Michael Hart at the University of Illinois, Project Gutenberg features some 16,000 e-texts in the public domain. High quality texts but not necessarily authoritative.
link: https://www.gutenberg.org

title: Oxford Text Archive
description: Founded in 1976 by Lou Burnard and part of the Humanities Computing Unit of the Oxford University Computing Services, OTA holds more than 2,500 titles. The catalogue of scholarly editions and literary works can be searched by author or title and browsed by author, language or title.
link: https://ota.ahds.ac.uk

title: On-Line Books Page
description: Hosted by the University of Pennsylvania, the On-Line Books Page contains more than 13,000 online books which can be searched or browsed by author, title, or Library of Congress subject classification.
link: https://digital.library.upenn.edu/books

title: Internet Public Library (IPL): Literature
description: The IPL Literature page contains many linke to full-text resources.
link: https://www.ipl.org/div/subject/browse/hum60.00.00

title: Humanities Text Initiative at the University of Michigan
description: Includes the American Verse Project, the Corpus of Middle English Prose and Verse, Early Modern English Materials, and Modern English Works. Some materials are restricted to the University of Michigan community.
link: https://deepblue.lib.umich.edu/handle/2027.42/154116

title: Scholars' Lab at the University of Virginia
description: Formerly the Electronic Text Center.  Its mission is 'to build and maintain an internet-accessible collection of SGML texts and images.' Provides access to 5,000 publicly-accessible texts in history, literature, philosophy, religion, and history of science. Collections include the Modern English Collection (1500 to present) and the Middle English Collection.
link: https://scholarslab.lib.virginia.edu

title: Electronic Literature Foundation
description: ELF's goal is 'to provide free access to a variety of texts from world literature available in several languages and/or editions'.
link: https://www.thegreatbooks.org

title: Berkeley Digital Collections
description: Many links to e-texts, including the American Heritage Project, Literature@SunSITE (largely U.S. authors), and Online Medieval and Classical Texts.
link: https://bancroft.berkeley.edu/collections

title: Bartleby.com: Great Books Online
description: Founded in 1993 at Columbia University, Bartleby provides fulltext access to works of reference, verse, fiction and non-fiction - all of which are searchable. Allows browsing by author, title and subject. Includes the Columbia Encyclopedia Sixth Edition, The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language Fourth Edition, Roget's II: The New Thesaurus Third Edition, Bartlett's Familiar Quotations 1919 edition, and The Oxford Shakespeare 1914 edition.
link: https://www.bartleby.com

title: Alex Catalogue of Electronic Texts New Version
description: 'The Alex Catalogue of Electronic Texts is a collection of public domain documents from American and English literature as well as Western philosophy.' This version can be searched by keyword or browsed by title, author or date.
link: https://www.infomotions.com/alex2

title: Alex Catalogue of Electronic Texts
description: 'The Alex Catalogue of Electronic Texts is a collection of public domain documents from American and English literature as well as Western philosophy.'
link: https://www.infomotions.com/alex

title: English Server
description: Formerly at Carnegie Mellon, now based at Iowa State University. Collections include Drama, Fiction and Poetry.
link: https://eserver.org

title: William Faulkner Foundation
description: 'The William Faulkner Foundation houses the Faulkner manuscripts and offers various services such as his bibliography, his chronology, scholarly articles, his filmography for scholars and students of Southern literature.'
link: https://www.william-faulkner.net

title: Literature and Culture of the American 1950s
description: Alan Filreis of the University of Pennsylvania maintains this extensive list of articles and other materials on literature, politics, sociology and the arts.
link: https://www.writing.upenn.edu/~afilreis/50s/home.html

title: Jack London Collection
description: Biographical information, bibliographies, correspondence, and an online archive from the Berkeley Digital Library Collection.
link: https://london.sonoma.edu

title: F. Scott Fitzgerald Centenary
description: The University of Southern California developed this extensive and well-organized site for the celebration of the one-hundredth anniversary of Fitzgerald's birth.
link: https://www.sc.edu/fitzgerald

title: Edith Wharton Society
description: 'Through annual meetings, sessions, special conferences, and its journal, The Edith Wharton Review, the Society provides a forum for Wharton studies.' The website includes an index to the Review, a bibliography of recommended critical works, the Wharton-L listserv and links to online resources including poems, short stories and some novels.
link: https://www.wsu.edu/~campbelld/wharton/index.html

title: Celestial Timepiece: A Joyce Carol Oates Homepage
description: Maintained by Randy Souther, a reference librarian at the University of San Francisco, 'Celestial Timepiece is intended to be a resource for fans, students, and scholars of Joyce Carol Oates's work.' Includes articles, awards, bibliographies, a discussion group and photographs.
link: https://jco.usfca.edu

title: Anniina's Toni Morrison Page
description: Includes links to articles, a bibliography, biographies and book reviews of Morrison's novels.
link: https://www.luminarium.org/contemporary/tonimorrison/toni.htm

title: Walt Whitman Archive
description: '...An electronic research and teaching tool that sets out to make Whitman's vast work, for the first time, easily and conveniently accessible to scholars, students, and general readers.' In addition, in conjunction with The Walt Whitman Quarterly Review, it offers 'the only comprehensive current bibliography of work about Whitman'.
link: https://www.whitmanarchive.org

title: Writings of Henry D. Thoreau
description: Extensive information about Thoreau divided into three sections: 'Life and Times', 'Reflections on Walden', and a 'Thoreau FAQ'. Also includes a lengthy, annotated list of links.
link: https://www.library.ucsb.edu/thoreau

title: Mark Twain Papers and Project
description: This site provides descriptions of the archives, methods to support the project, means of access to the archives, and contact information.
link: https://bancroft.berkeley.edu/MTP

title: Mark Twain in His Times
description: 'This interpretive archive, drawn largely from the resources of the Barrett Collection, focuses on how 'Mark Twain' and his works were created and defined, marketed and performed, reviewed and appreciated. ...Contained here are dozens of texts and manuscripts, scores of contemporary reviews and articles, hundreds of images, and many different kinds of interactive exhibits.' Developed and maintained by Stephen Railton, Professor of American literature at the University of Virginia.
link: https://etext.virginia.edu/railton/index2.html

title: James Fenimore Cooper Society
description: Biographical information, some letters and texts, articles, photographs and links to other Web resources.
link: https://external.oneonta.edu/cooper

title: Hemingway Resource Center
description: Large-scale and easy-to-navigate site which features biographical and bibliographical information, links and photos.
link: https://www.lostgeneration.com/hrc.htm

title: Edgar Allan Poe Society of Baltimore
description: An award-winning site with comprehensive information about the author and his works.
link: https://www.eapoe.org

title: African American Women Writers of the 19th Century
description: Part of the New York Public Library Digital Schomburg Collection, this archive includes fifty-two published works by nineteenth-century black women writers. A full text database of books and pamphlets published prior to 1920, it can be searched by keyword.
link: https://digital.nypl.org/schomburg/writers_aa19

title: Internet Public Library Online Literary Criticism Collection: American: 1600-1783
description: Essays and articles on selected topics. Also includes links to materials about authors of the period.
link: https://www.ipl.org/div/litcrit/bin/litcrit.out.pl?pd=American:+1600-1783

title: Yahoo Poetry Page
description: Many categories and links.
link: https://dir.yahoo.com/arts/humanities/literature/poetry

title: Voice of the Shuttle: Poetry Studies
description: Extensive links to poetry sites.
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=2744#id2074

title: Twentieth-century Poetry in English
description: 'Contains information on about 160 poets, with separate pages for eleven major poets. These include biographical and critical information, photos, discographies, and filmographies as well as full-text of some poems. Maintained by Eiichi Hishikawa at Kobe University, Japan.'
link: https://www.lit.kobe-u.ac.jp/~hishika/20c_poet.htm

title: Sonnet Central
description: Contains sonnets from Great Britain from early sonnets to early 20th century. Includes sonnets from the United States, Canada, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. Also contains sonnet criticism and even a listening room.
link: https://www.sonnets.org

title: Representative Poetry Online
description: Part of the University of Toronto English Library (UTEL), Representative Poetry Online includes more than 3,000 English poems by 500 poets 'from Caedmon, in the Old English period, to the work of living poets today.' It can be searched by keyword or browsed by poet, title, or first line.
link: https://rpo.library.utoronto.ca

title: Poetry Portal
description: A gateway to numerous sites that deal with poetry - from poetry online to poetry publishing
link: https://poetryportal.org/index.html

title: Poetry Archives
description: Contains almost 4,000 English language poems, including a few translations of classical poetry. Approximately 150 poets are represented. The majority date from the 16th to 19th century.
link: https://www.emule.com/poetry

title: Museum of American Poetics
description: 
link: https://www.poetspath.com

title: Modern American Poetry
description: MAPS provides criticism on 161 contemporary poets.
link: https://www.english.uiuc.edu/maps/index.htm

title: Internet Poetry Archive
description: 'Selected poems from a number of contemporary poets.' Provided by the University of North Carolina Press and the UNC Office of Information Technology. Includes Phillip Levine, Seamus Heaney, Czelaw Milosz, Robert Pinsky, Yusef Komunyakaa, Margaret Walker, and Richard Wilbur.
link: https://www.ibiblio.org/ipa

title: Contemporary American Poetry Archive
description: 'CAPA is an electronic archive designed to make out-of-print volumes of poetry available to readers, scholars, and researchers. The books are stored as individual text-only files.' Arranged by author, then title.
link: https://capa.conncoll.edu

title: Canadian Sonnets
description: Part of Sonnet Central, this site includes 'sonnets in English from A Century of Canadian Sonnets as well as links to sonnets in Representative Poetry On-Line and transcriptions of material from the Early Canadiana website.'
link: https://www.sonnets.org/canada.htm

title: Bartleby.com: Verse
description: Features anthologies and volumes arranged by author. International coverage.
link: https://www.bartleby.com/verse

title: American Verse Project
description: 'The American Verse Project is a collaborative project between the University of Michigan Humanities Text Initiative (HTI) and the University of Michigan Press. The project is assembling an electronic archive of volumes of American poetry prior to 1920. The full text of each volume of poetry is being converted into digital form and coded in Standard Generalized Mark-up Language (SGML).'
link: https://quod.lib.umich.edu/a/amverse

title: Wright American Fiction 1851-1875
description: This is a collection of 19th century American fiction, as listed in Lyle Wright's bibliography American Fiction, 1851-1875. 'The Wright American Fiction online collection attempts to include every novel published in the United States from 1851 to 1875. It includes works by well known writers such as Louisa May Alcott, Mark Twain, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and Herman Melville, along with a great many forgotten authors, whose works may have been very popular in their own time.' There are currently 1752 texts included (1602 unedited, 155 fully edited and encoded) by 845 authors. The site features browsing, advanced searching and citation searching capabilities.
link: https://www.letrs.indiana.edu/web/w/wright2

title: Voice of the Shuttle: Fiction Studies
description: Extensive links to fiction sites.
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=912

title: Hyperizons: Hypertext Fiction
description: This site features 'writing and researching and thinking about hypertext fiction. Hypertext fiction (aka hyperfiction, interactive fiction, nonlinear fiction) is a new art form that while not necessarily made possible by the computer was certainly made feasible by it. Its creators make use of hypertext--of which the Web is only one widespread albeit limited incarnation--to create fiction with many features uncharacteristic of print fiction.'
link: https://www.duke.edu/~mshumate/hyperfic.html

title: Blithe House Quarterly: A Site for Gay Short Fiction
description: BHQ features a diversity of new short stories by emerging and established gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered authors.
link: https://www.blithe.com

title: Bartleby.com: Fiction
description: Features anthologies and volumes arranged by author. International coverage.
link: https://www.bartleby.com/fiction

title: WWW Virtual Library for Theatre and Drama
description: Links to theater companies worldwide, plays in print, and electronic text archives and plays online.
link: https://vl-theatre.com

title: Voice of the Shuttle: Drama, Theater and Performance Art Studies
description: Searchable database with extensive links to theatre and drama sites.
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=2744#id782

title: Theatre History on the Web
description: Maintained by Jack Wolcott, University of Washington, this site provides links to Web tools, area studies, cultural sites, as well as research centers, museums and libraries.
link: https://www.videoccasions-nw.com/history/jack.html

title: McCoy's Guide to Theatre and Performance Studies
description: Created and maintained by Ken McCoy, Associate Professor, Stetson University (Florida), this site provides extensive links to resources in drama, theater, and performance arts.
link: https://www2.stetson.edu/csata/thr_guid.html

title: Inter-Play: An On-line Index to Plays in Collections, Anthologies and Periodicals
description: Inter-Play is an online index to plays in collections, anthologies, and periodicals.
link: https://www.lib.pdx.edu/systems/interplay

title: The English Server: Drama
description: 'This site contains a collection of original plays and screenplays, criticism and links to other sites concerned with theatre. It publishes both classic and contemporary works.' Submissions are accepted for consideration by the editors.
link: https://eserver.org/drama

title: Bibliomania.com
description: Bibliomania.com features extensive lists of electronic texts in the Drama, Fiction, and Poetry sections. The Fiction section also features extensive lists of electronic texts, divided into 2 sections, 'Fiction' and 'Short Stories.' The fulltext and title/author can be searched.
link: https://www.bibliomania.com

title: Voice of the Shuttle: Contemporary (British and American)
description: Extensive links to 'modern' and 'contemporary' literature divided into categories, including, 'Authors, Works, Projects' and 'Criticism and Criticism (General).'
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=2741

title: Voice of the Shuttle: Modern (British and American)
description: Extensive links to 'modern' and 'contemporary' literature divided into categories, including, 'Authors, Works, Projects' and 'Criticism and Criticism (General).'
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=2747

title: Literary Resources: Twentieth-Century British and Irish
description: Extensive number of links, maintained by Jack Lynch, Rutgers University.
link: https://andromeda.rutgers.edu/~jlynch/Lit/20th.html

title: Voice of the Shuttle: Victorian
description: Extensive links to the Victorian period divided into categories, including, 'Authors, Works, Projects' and 'Criticism and Criticism (General).'
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=2751

title: Victorian Women Writers Project
description: 'The goal of the Victorian Women Writers Project is to produce highly accurate transcriptions of works by British women writers of the 19th century, encoded using the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML). The works, selected with the assistance of the Advisory Board, will include anthologies, novels, political pamphlets, religious tracts, children's books, and volumes of poetry and verse drama.'
link: https://www.indiana.edu/~letrs/vwwp

title: Victorian Web
description: 'Literature, History and Culture in the Age of Victoria.' The Authors section contains links to some of the texts, as well as 'a biography, chronology, or both, a list of works, and an introduction or other relevant essay' on each author.
link: https://www.victorianweb.org

title: Literary Resources: Victorian British
description: Extensive number of links, maintained by Jack Lynch, Rutgers University.
link: https://andromeda.rutgers.edu/~jlynch/Lit/victoria.html

title: Women Romantic-Era Writers
description: Created and maintained by Adriana Craciun at the University of Nottingham. Contents include electronic texts and contemporary responses.
link: https://craciun.ucr.edu/women-romantic-era-writers

title: Voice of the Shuttle: Romantics
description: Extensive links to the Romantic period divided into categories, including, 'Authors, Works, Projects' and 'Criticism and Criticism (General).'
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=2750

title: A Romantic Natural History
description: 'A website designed to survey the relationships between literary works and natural history in the century before Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species (1859).' Section VII: Literary Figures includes biographies and links for specific authors.
link: https://blogs.dickinson.edu/romnat

title: Romanticism on the Net
description: 'An International Refereed Electronic Journal devoted to Romantic Studies. The Sites section includes links to General Web Sites, Romantic Writers, Scholars Homepages.'
link: https://www.ron.umontreal.ca

title: Romantic Circles
description: Devoted to the study of Romantic period and culture, this site includes Electronic Editions, a 'searchable archive of carefully-chosen texts based on the highest scholarly standards,' and Praxis Series, 'collections of original critical and theoretical essays on Romanticism.'
link: https://www.rc.umd.edu

title: Romantic Chronology
description: 'Hypertext chronology of literary, social, and historical events in Britain and France from 1785-1851; includes links to online resources for authors, works, and topics.' Includes a search engine.
link: https://rchrono.english.ucsb.edu

title: Literary Resources: Romantic
description: Extensive number of links, maintained by Jack Lynch, Rutgers University.
link: https://andromeda.rutgers.edu/~jlynch/Lit/romantic.html

title: British Women Romantic Poets 1789-1832
description: 'An Electronic Collection of Texts from the Shields Library, University of California, Davis. The goal of this project is the design and development of highly accurate and reliable electronic editions of works published by British women poets between 1789 and 1832. The texts will be tagged using Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) and encoded using the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) Guidelines.'
link: https://www.lib.ucdavis.edu/English/BWRP/index.htm

title: Voice of the Shuttle: Restoration and Eighteenth-Century
description: Extensive links to eighteenth-century English literature divided into categories, including, 'Authors, Works, Projects' and 'General Criticism.'
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=2738

title: Internet Library of Early Journals
description: ILEJ 'is a joint project by the Universities of Birmingham, Leeds, Manchester and Oxford, conducted under the auspices of the eLib (Electronic Libraries) Programme. It aims to digitise substantial runs of 18th and 19th century journals, and make these images available on the Internet, together with their associated bibliographic data. The core collection for the project are runs of at least 20 consecutive years of: Three 18th-century journals: Gentleman's Magazine, The Annual Register, and Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society; and Three 19th-century journals: Notes and Queries, The Builder, and Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine.'
link: https://www.bodley.ox.ac.uk/ilej

title: Gothic: Materials for Study
description: 'Discussions of Gothic psychology, female Gothic, the supernatural, and Gothic drama. Includes an annotated bibliography of several dozen secondary items, most published since the seventies.'
link: https://mural.uv.es/maseja/The%20Gothic%20Materials%20for%20Study.htm

title: Eighteenth-Century Studies
description: Part of the English Server, this 'collection archives works of the eighteenth century from the perspectives of literary and cultural studies. Novels, plays, memoirs, treatises and poems of the period are kept here (in some cases, influential texts from before 1700 or after 1800 as well), along with modern criticism.'
link: https://eserver.org/18th

title: Eighteenth-Century Resources: Literature
description: Extensive number of links, maintained by Jack Lynch, Rutgers University.
link: https://andromeda.rutgers.edu/~jlynch/18th/lit.html

title: Eighteenth-Century English Novel Research Guide: Jane Austen Information Page
description: 
link: https://www.pemberley.com/janeinfo/janeinfo.html

title: Eighteenth-Century English Novel Research Guide
description: From West Virginia University Libraries, this site offers links to Web Sites, e-texts and articles.  See links below for examples of authors.
link: https://www.libraries.wvu.edu/novel/index.htm

title: c18 Bibliographies On-Line
description: Compiled and maintained by Jack Lynch, Rutgers University, this site features a 'series of annotated bibliographies on eighteenth-century authors contributed by specialists, providing guidance on standard editions, bibliographies, biographies, and criticism.'
link: https://andromeda.rutgers.edu/~jlynch/C18/biblio

title: The Works of the Bard
description: The complete works with a good search engine.
link: https://www.it.usyd.edu.au/~matty/Shakespeare

title: Voice of the Shuttle: William Shakespeare
description: Extensive links to Shakespeare divided into categories, including, 'General Resources,' 'Writings,' 'Criticism,' 'The Authorship Question,' 'Organizations and Programs,' 'Visual Resources,' 'Shakespeare Festivals,' and 'Miscellaneous.'
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=2816

title: Shakespeare's Globe Online Resources
description: Sponsored by the Globe Theatre, this page 'suggests a variety of online resources, including journals, databases and catalogues, relating to early modern drama.'
link: https://www.shakespearesglobe.com/education/library-research/library-archive/recommended-online-resources

title: Shakespeare Oxford Society Home Page
description: 'The purpose of the Society is to document and establish Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford (1550-1604), as the universally recognized author of the works of William Shakespeare.'
link: https://www.shakespeare-oxford.com

title: Oxford Shakespeare
description: From Bartleby.com. 'The 1914 Oxford edition of the Complete Works of William Shakespeare ranks among the most authoritative published this century. The 37 plays, 154 sonnets and miscellaneous verse constitute the literary cornerstone of Western civilization.'
link: https://www.bartleby.com/70

title: Mr. William Shakespeare and the Internet
description: Compiled and maintained by Terry Gray, this site is extensive and scholarly. Includes the fulltext of works, as well as essays and criticism, biographical and historical material, and non-English language editions
link: https://shakespeare.palomar.edu

title: Internet Shakespeare Editions
description: Scholarly site at the University of Victoria (Canada) with a distinguished editorial board. 'The aim of the Internet Shakespeare Editions is to make scholarly, fully annotated texts of Shakespeare's plays available in a form native to the medium of the Internet.' Includes old-spelling texts of the plays and Shakespeare's Life and Times.
link: https://ise.uvic.ca

title: The Complete Works of William Shakespeare
description: From Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Includes a search engine.
link: https://shakespeare.mit.edu

title: Voice of the Shuttle: Renaissance and Seventeenth-Century
description: Extensive links to Renaissance and Seventeenth-century English literature divided into categories, including, 'Authors, Works, Projects' and 'General Criticism.'
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=2749

title: Renascence Editions
description: 'An Online Repository of Works Printed in English Between the Years 1477 and 1799.' Organized by author, then title. Includes sections on Shakespeare and Spenser.
link: https://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~rbear/ren.htm

title: Philological Museum
description: 'Includes works by Addison, Alabaster, Bellamy, Camden, Campion, Fletcher, Milton, Owen, and others.'
link: https://philological.cal.bham.ac.uk

title: Milton's Works and Life: Select Studies and Resources
description: By R.G. Siemens, University of Alberta. 'Originally published in Dennis Danielson (ed.). The Cambridge Companion to Milton. 2nd ed. Cambridge, 1999. Pp. 268-90.' Extensive bibliography.
link: https://www.shu.ac.uk/emls/iemls/postprint/CCM2Biblio.html

title: John Milton Reading Room
description: By Thomas Luxon and his students at Dartmouth College. Offers e-texts, some commentary and a bibliography.
link: https://milton.host.dartmouth.edu/reading_room/contents/text.shtml

title: Metaphysical Lyrics and Poems of the Seventeenth Century: Donne to Butler
description: From Bartleby.com. 'Selected and Edited with an Essay by Sir Herbert J.C. Grierson.' 'Contents: Love Poems, Divine Poems, Miscellanies.' Searchable and includes author, title and first line indexes.
link: https://www.bartleby.com/105

title: Literary Resources: Renaissance
description: Extensive number of links, maintained by Jack Lynch, Rutgers University.
link: https://andromeda.rutgers.edu/~jlynch/Lit/ren.html

title: John Milton: the Milton-L Home Page
description: 'Devoted to the life, literature and times of the poet John Milton.' Includes e-texts, images, audio, articles and book reviews.
link: https://www.urich.edu/~creamer/milton

title: Furness Shakespeare Library
description: From the Schoenberg Center for Electronic Text and Image, University of Pennsylvania Library. Includes Shakespeare and other Renaissance English texts. Features high quality scans of primary and secondary sources.
link: https://sceti.library.upenn.edu/sceti/furness

title: English Literature: Early 17th Century: Lady Mary Wroth
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/sevenlit/wroth

title: English Literature: Early 17th Century: John Milton
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/sevenlit/milton

title: English Literature: Early 17th Century: Andrew Marvell
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/sevenlit/marvell

title: English Literature: Early 17th Century: Ben Jonson
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/sevenlit/jonson

title: English Literature: Early 17th Century: George Herbert
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/sevenlit/herbert

title: English Literature: Early 17th Century: Sir Francis Bacon
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/sevenlit/bacon

title: English Literature: Early 17th Century
description: (1603-1660) - Features texts, links, essays, articles, and some audio files. Several authors are represented; see links below.
link: https://www.luminarium.org/sevenlit

title: Edmund Spenser Home Page
description: From University of Cambridge, Faculty of English, this site is 'devoted to supporting the reading, study, and discussion of the words of Edmund Spenser. It aims to serve the needs of the scholar, of the student, and of the interested passer-by, offering resources and links of various level of specialization.' Sections include online texts, biography and critical bibliography.
link: https://www.english.cam.ac.uk/spenseronline/welcome

title: Early Modern Literary Studies: Electronic Texts
description: This site 'is a gathering of links to select electronic texts of fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth century materials which are on the Internet.' Organized by author, then title.
link: https://www.shu.ac.uk/emls/emlsetxt.html

title: Complete Works of Christopher Marlowe
description: From the Perseus Projest, Tufts University, this site 'provides an edition of Marlowe's works that begins to transcend the limits of print publication and exploit the flexibility of an electronic medium. Included are all of Marlowe's plays, his two known poetic works, Hero and Leander and The Passionate Shepheard to His Love, his translations of Ovid and Lucan, and the short miscellaneous works attributed to Marlowe, a dedicatory epistle to Mary, the Countess of Pembroke and the epitaph on Sir Roger Manwood.'
link: https://www.perseus.tufts.edu/Texts/Marlowe.html

title: Voice of the Shuttle: Anglo-Saxon and Medieval
description: Extensive links to English Anglo-Saxon and Medieval literature divided into categories, including, 'Authors, Works, Projects' and 'Criticism and Critics.'
link: https://vos.ucsb.edu/browse.asp?id=2740

title: Time-line of English Poetry
description: From Representative Poetry Online, University of Toronto, this date index includes a chronology of publications, births, deaths, with links to some author sites and the fulltext of some poems.
link: https://rpo.library.utoronto.ca/timeline

title: TEAMS Middle English Texts
description: 'The goal of the TEAMS (The Consortium for the Teaching of the Middle Ages) Middle English text series is to make available to teachers and students texts which occupy an important place in the literary and cultural canon but which have not been readily available in student editions. The National Endowment for the Humanities has supported the creation of this website through a grant to sustain the Middle English Texts Series.'
link: https://www.lib.rochester.edu/camelot/teams/tmsmenu.htm

title: Piers Plowman Electronic Archive
description: 'A hypermedia textual archive supported by the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities at the University of Virginia.' Section IV of the page Creating an Electronic Archive of Piers Plowman: Table of Contents includes samples of the critical text, B archetype, manuscript descriptions, textual facsimiles, and sample collations.
link: https://www3.iath.virginia.edu/seenet/piers

title: ORB: The Online Reference Book for Medieval Studies
description: 'The ORB is an academic site, written and maintained by medieval scholars for the benefit of their fellow instructors and serious students. All articles have been judged by at least two peer reviewers. Authors are held to high standards of accuracy, currency, and relevance to the field of medieval studies.'
link: https://the-orb.net

title: Online Medieval and Classical Library
description: 'The Online Medieval and Classical Library (OMACL) is a collection of some of the most important literary works of Classical and Medieval civilization. Douglas B. Killings is responsible for the project.' The fulltexts can be searched by keyword and browsed by title, author, genre, or language.
link: https://omacl.org

title: Literary Resources: Medieval
description: Extensive number of links, maintained by Jack Lynch, Rutgers University.
link: https://andromeda.rutgers.edu/~jlynch/Lit/medieval.html

title: Labyrinth: Resources for Medieval Studies
description: 'The Labyrinth provides free, organized access to electronic resources in medieval studies through a World Wide Web server at Georgetown University. The Labyrinth's easy-to-use menus and links provide connections to databases, services, texts, and images on other servers around the world.'
link: https://blogs.commons.georgetown.edu/labyrinth

title: Internet Medieval Sourcebook: Selected Sources: England
description: Features many historical electronic texts and some literary ones. The page on England is sub-divided by period.
link: https://www.fordham.edu/halsall/sbook1n.html

title: Chaucer Metapage
description: 'This project was initiated at the 33rd International Congress of Medieval Studies by a group of medievalists interested in promoting Chaucer studies on the WWW. Its aims are: to organize and provide navigation aides for Chaucer resources on the WWW.'
link: https://www.unc.edu/depts/chaucer

title: Camelot Project at the University of Rochester
description: 'The Camelot Project is designed to make available in electronic format a database of Arthurian texts, images, bibliographies, and basic information. The project, begun in 1995, is sponsored by the University of Rochester and prepared in The Robbins Library, a branch of Rush Rhees Library. The Main Menu lists Arthurian characters, symbols, and sites. You may move from any highlighted element to a sub-menu of basic information, texts, images, and a bibliography about that subject. You may also look at a menu arranged by author with most medieval texts listed under the heading 'Anonymous.' A third menu lists artists and their works.'
link: https://www.lib.rochester.edu/camelot/cphome.stm

title: Beowulf from The Harvard Classics, Volume 49 (1910)
description: 
link: https://www.alcyone.com/max/lit/beowulf

title: Beowulf: Electronic Beowulf Project
description: 
link: https://ebeowulf.uky.edu

title: Beowulf: Readings From Beowulf
description: Text accompanied by sound files in WAV format.
link: https://faculty.virginia.edu/OldEnglish/Beowulf.Readings/Beowulf.Readings.html

title: Beowulf: Old English and Interlinear Translation
description: 
link: https://rpo.library.utoronto.ca/poems/beowulf

title: Beowulf: Medieval Sourcebook (in Old English)
description: 
link: https://www.fordham.edu/halsall/basis/beowulf-oe.html

title: Anthology of Middle English Literature (1350-1485): Middle English Lyrics
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/medlit/lyrics.htm

title: Anthology of Middle English Literature (1350-1485): Middle English Plays
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/medlit/plays.htm

title: Anthology of Middle English Literature (1350-1485): Everyman
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/medlit/everyman.htm

title: Anthology of Middle English Literature (1350-1485): Sir Thomas Malory
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/medlit/malory.htm

title: Anthology of Middle English Literature (1350-1485): Margery Kempe
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/medlit/margery.htm

title: Anthology of Middle English Literature (1350-1485): Julian of Norwich
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/medlit/julian.htm

title: Anthology of Middle English Literature (1350-1485): William Langland
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/medlit/langland.htm

title: Anthology of Middle English Literature (1350-1485): Sir Gawain and The Green Knight
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/medlit/gawain.htm

title: Anthology of Middle English Literature (1350-1485): Geoffrey Chaucer
description: 
link: https://www.luminarium.org/medlit/chaucer.htm

title: Anthology of Middle English Literature (1350-1485)
description: Features texts, links, essays, articles, and some audio files. "The Norton Anthology of English Literature, Sixth Edition," has been the main authority consulted for accuracy of dates and details.
link: https://www.luminarium.org/medlit

title: Montreal Museum of Contemporary Art
description: Check the links to Documentary Resources (list of artist files, periodicals and online catalogue of documentation centre), Research products (Biobibligraphies of international artists, directory of exhibitions, etc), and more.
link: https://media.macm.org/index_e.html

title: Women Artists in Canada
description: Contemporary artists includes images of works, brief biographical information, and bibliography.
link: https://epe.lac-bac.gc.ca/100/205/301/ic/cdc/waic/index.html

title: Rhizome.org
description: Access the Rhizome ArtBase, an online archive of new media art, including net art, software art, computer games, and documentation of new media, performance and installation.
link: https://rhizome.org

title: Asia Art Archive
description: A portal site a dynamic, growing body of material intended to reflect contemporary artistic practice and developments of Asia within an international context.
link: https://www.aaa.org.hk

title: Dia Center for the Arts
description: Click on Artists, exhibitions and long-term projects and then click on artists index for links to numerous international artists (biographies, bibliographies, and more).
link: https://www.diacenter.org

title: the-artists.org
description: International coverage can be searched by artist or discipline. Provides brief biographical information and some lists of publications.
link: https://the-artists.org

title: e-flux
description: Announcements of text and image press releases of art professionals in North America and Europe.
link: https://www.e-flux.com

title: Art in Context
description: Information about contemporary artists from around the world.
link: https://www.artincontext.org

title: Contemporary Art
description: Links to a wide range of web pages from individual artist's pages to contemporary art museums.
link: https://witcombe.sbc.edu/ARTHcontemporary.html

title: CCCA: Centre for Canadian Contemporary Art
description: Includes 17,212 images of work by 277 artists as well as links relevant to contemporary art in Canada.
link: https://www.ccca.ca

title: National Art Education Association
description: Regularly updated news on this important association.
link: https://www.naea-reston.org

title: INSEA: International Society for Education through Art
description: Includes a link to UNESCO/INSEA which includes lesson plans organized by age group, media and countries.
link: https://www.insea.org

title: Canadian Society for Education through Art/Societe canadienne d'education par l'art
description: Provides a wide variety of links including job lists, conferences and other aspects of teaching art in Canada.
link: https://www.csea-scea.ca

title: ArtsEdge
description: Sponsored by the Kennedy Center, this site provides links to resources for art education.
link: https://artsedge.kennedy-center.org

title: ArtsEdNet
description: The Getty's Art Education web site includes links to lessons, image galleries and more.
link: https://www.getty.edu/artsednet

title: Medical Biochemistry Page
description: Encyclopedic dictionary of major biochemical concepts
link: https://themedicalbiochemistrypage.org

title: Vassar Stats
description: 
link: https://vassarstats.net

title: iPad Pro + Pencil
description: <p>Kit contains <a href="https://support.apple.com/kb/SP843?locale=en_US">11-inch iPad pro (3rd generation)</a> and <a href="https://www.apple.com/shop/product/MU8F2AM/A/apple-pencil-2nd-generation">Apple pencil (2nd generation)</a>. Procreate installed (raster graphics editor app).</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1293266927

title: Analog Discovery 2 Pro Bundle 
description: The <a href="https://www.digikey.ca/en/products/detail/digilent-inc./240-123/12149635">Analog Discovery 2 Pro Bundle</a> includes DC Power Sources Oscilloscope, Logic Analyzer.
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1336861679

title: Digital Calipers
description: <p>Features digital vernier calipers, large LCD screen, and stainless steel electronic micrometer with fraction/inch/metric conversions.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1336714773

title: Precision Screwdriver Kit
description: <p>The <a href="https://canada.ifixit.com/products/mako-driver-kit-64-precision-bits">Mako Driver Kit</a> includes iFixit's 4 mm aluminum screwdriver handle with magnetic bit socket, knurled grip, and swivel top?plus 64 precision driver bits and a flexible extension.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1196034986

title: Vuze 4K 3D 360 Spherical VR Camera
description: <p><a href="https://www.bhphotovideo.com/c/product/1290533-REG/vuze_vuze_1_blu_4k_3d_360_spherical.html">Vuze camera</a> has 8 full HD lenses arranged in pairs and spaced to capture true stereoscopic 3D 360� videos and photos creating a sense of real-life presence. The Vuze camera creates content for your VR headset, allowing for a fully immersive experience. </p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1336716008

title: Oculus Quest 2
description: <p><a href="https://www.newegg.ca/oculus-quest-2-standalone/p/N82E16826910034">Quest 2</a> is the all-in-one system that sets you free to roam in VR. With no wires or cables to limit your VR experience, simply put on the headset, draw out your play space, and jump into fully-immersive worlds.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1286081882

title: HTC Vive Pro 
description: <p><a href="https://www.vive.com/us/product/vive-pro/#:~:text=Headset%20Specs%20%20%20Screen%3A%20%20%20Dual,Hi-Res%20certif%20...%20%204%20more%20rows%20">HTC Vive Pro</a> offers true-to-life precision room-scale tracking; ultra-vibrant screen colours; incredibly high contrast and uber-realistic sounds. VIVE Pro is engineered for professional-grade VR.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1336840591

title: Knit and Crochet Kit
description: <p>Starter kit contains yarn, crochet hook, and knitting needles.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1336861912

title: Midi Controller (M-Audio Oxygen 25 MKV)
description: <p>The <a href="https://m-audio.com/oxygen-v-25">Oxygen 25 (MKV) controller</a> includes powerful features essential for creating and producing music such as Note Repeat (a staple mark in beat production),?Full Velocity Control of keys and 8 pads, 8 assignable knobs for controlling effect plugins and virtual instruments, and an assignable fader for mixing.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1341998891

title: Midi Controller (M-Audio Oxygen 49 MKV)
description: <p>The <a href="https://www.m-audio.com/oxygen-v-49">Oxygen 49 (MKV) controller</a> includes powerful features essential for creating and producing music such as Note Repeat (a staple mark in beat production),?Full Velocity Control of keys and 8 pads, 8 assignable knobs for controlling effect plugins and virtual instruments, and 9 assignable faders for mixing.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1350682894

title: Tentacle Sync Track E pocket audio recorder and lavalier microphone
description: <p><a href="http://www.economik.com/tentacle-sync/track-e-single-set/">Pocket audio recorder and lavalier microphone</a> with set up and control via Bluetooth on your mobile device.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1342001580

title: Ambisonic Audio Recorder (Zoom H3-VR)
description: <p>The <a href="http://www.economik.com/zoom/h3-vr/">ZOOM H3-VR</a> is an all-in-one virtual reality audio recorder, featuring an Ambisonic mic and onboard decoder.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1274137507

title: Presonus AudioBox iTwo
description: <p>USB 2.0 bus-powered <a href="http://www.economik.com/presonus/audiobox-itwo/">PreSonus AudioBox iTwo</a> audio interface provides two combo mic and switchable line/instrument inputs with a high-performance mic preamplifier, so you can record synths, guitars, and anything you can capture with mics.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1342002395

title: Shure SM58-LC Microphone
description: <p>The <a href="http://www.economik.com/shure/sm58-lc/">Shure SM58</a> unidirectional (cardioid) dynamic vocal microphone is designed for professional vocal use in live performance, sound reinforcement, and studio recording.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/884451917

title: Lens Kit for DSLR (50 mm Lens and 10-18 mm Zoom Lens)
description: <p>This kit contains a <a href="https://photoservice.ca/magasin/canon-ef-50mm-f1-8-stm/8eaa32c0-da1c-0132-e6c3-00163e9110c0?variation=1136390&query=CANON%2050mm%20f%2F1.8%20STM">50 mm lens</a> and <a href="https://www.canon.ca/en/product?name=EF-S_10-18mm_f/4.5-5.6_IS_STM_">10-18 mm zoom lens</a> that can be used with a DSLR camera. </p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1349276768

title: Canon XA40 4K Ultra High Definition Camcorder
description: <p>The <a href="https://www.canon.ca/en/product?name=XA40&category=/en/products/Video-Cameras---PRO/Professional-Camcorders/4K-UHD-Camcorders">Canon XA40 4K Ultra High Definition Camcorder</a> features an advanced 4K UHD CMOS Pro Image Sensor, a powerful DIG!C DV 6 Image Processor and a 20x High Definition optical zoom lens, the XA40 camcorder captures expansive, high-quality 4K UHD video.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1342119894

title: eGPU and graphics card
description: <p>Unit includes AKiTIO Node Titan Thunderbolt External GPU and ASUS ROG Strix GeForce RTX 3080 OC Edition 12 GB graphics card (GDDR6X - PCIe 4.0 -2 x HDMI, 3 x DisplayPort).</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1349321213

title: Drum machine (Korg Volca Beats)
description: <p>Electribe-style 16-step sequencer with eight memory patches.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1053540190

title: Knitting Machine
description: <p>Flatbed knitting machine. Punch Card Knitter SK280/SK210</p>
link: 

title: Microscope
description: <p>Amscope MU1000-HS high speed microscope digital camera.</p>
link: 

title: HoloLens
description: <p>The <a href="https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/hololens">HoloLens</a> is an ergonomic, untethered self-contained holographic device with enterprise-ready applications to increase user accuracy and output.</p>
link: 

title: Arctec Eva Scanner
description: <p>This structured-light <a href="https://www.artec3d.com/portable-3d-scanners/artec-eva?utm_source=google&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=1937302799&utm_term=%2Bartec%20%2Beva%20%2Bscanner||kwd-332971544296&utm_content=76342286371||&keyword=%2Bartec%20%2Beva%20%2Bscanner&gclid=Cj0KCQiA3eGfBhCeARIsACpJNU8MnS1G_3T5rwLgT3c_YM3QTsfOFxjYTFBUV2oOK04PMo3vg8bu4kMaAqW5EALw_wcB">3D scanner</a> is the ideal choice for making quick, textured, and accurate 3D models of medium-sized objects such as a human bust, an alloy wheel, or a motorcycle exhaust system. It scans quickly, capturing precise measurements in high resolution.</p>
link: 

title: Graphic Punch (Circle Cutter)
description: <p>This <a href="https://peoplepowerpress.org/products/2-standard-button-maker-machines-and-start-up-kits?_pos=1&_sid=e592881c9&_ss=r&variant=9938617669">graphic punch</a> is used to cut the perfect size circle for your button designs. </p>
link: 

title: Button Maker
description: <p>The <a href="https://peoplepowerpress.org/collections/standard-button-makers-supplies/products/2-standard-button-maker-machines-and-start-up-kits"> Tecre Model #200</a> 2 inch hand press is used for making medium sized buttons and magnets.</p>
link: 

title: 360 Degree Camera-Ricoh Theta
description: <p>360-degree video (or photography) is video recordings where a view in every direction is recorded at the same time, shot using an omnidirectional camera or a collection of cameras. The Sandbox model is the <a href="https://theta360.com/en/about/theta/s.html">Ricoh Tehta S</a>.</p>

link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/963848741

title: 37 in 1 sensor kit for Arduino
description: <p>The <a href="https://www.modmypi.com/download/37-piece-sensor-description.pdf">37 in 1 sensor kit for Arduino</a> is a sensor package integrated with resistors that can directly plug into an Arduino.</p>

link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1004344166

title: Adafruit Feather Bluetooth
description: <p>This <a href="https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-feather-32u4-bluefruit-le/downloads?view=all">small board </a> is a'all-in-one' product: Arduino-compatible + Bluetooth Low Energy with built in USB and battery charging.</p>
link: 

title: Adafruit Feather WiFi
description: <p><a href="https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-feather-huzzah-esp8266/overvie">Adafruit Feather HUZZAH ESP8266 </a> is an Arduino-compatible board with WiFi and built in USB and battery charging. </p>
link: 

title: Adjustable Power supply
description: <p>The <a href="https://www.sra-solder.com/korad-kd3005p-programmable-precision-variable-adjustable-30v-5a-dc-linear-power-supply-digital-regulated-lab-grade">KORAD KD3005P </a> Programmable Presicion variable adjustable benchtop power supply. 30V, 5A, DC Linear Power Supply.</p>
link: 

title: Alienware Gaming Laptop
description: <p><a href="http://www.dell.com/support/manuals/ca/en/cadhs1/alienware-15-laptop/alienware-15-r3-setupandspecifications/specifications?guid=guid-1eae1626-6999-4d20-a522-a574d6b4761c&amp;lang=en-us">The Alienware 15 R3</a> Gaming computer is a personal computer designed for playing computationally demanding video games. These computers are equipped with the NVIDIA GTX1060 with 6GB GDDR5. They also have an Intel Core i7 processor, and 16GB of RAM. These laptops come with Adobe Creative Cloud software, as their powerful processor and graphics card makes them appropriate for a variety of computationally intensive applications.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1007175991

title: Analogue Synthesizer Korg Minilogue
description: <p>This is a fully programmable 4-voice analogue synthesizer with a 16-step note and motion sequencer, 8 voice modes, on board tape-style delay, multiple sound shaping and filter options, and an oscilloscope display.It's the next-generation analogue synthesizer for musicians of all types.<a href="http://www.korg.com/caen/products/synthesizers/minilogue/">Full specifications</a></p>
link: 

title: Android Tablet
description: <p>An Android tablet is a tablet-sized PC that runs on Google's Android operating system (OS). Android tablets include almost all the key features found in a regular tablet PC, including office applications, games, Web browsers and many other programs. The Sandbox's tablets are
<a href="https://www.bhphotovideo.com/c/product/1203131-REG/nvidia_940_81761_2500_500_16gb_shield_8_tablet.html" target="new" rel="noopener noreferrer">NVIDIA Shields</a>.</p>

link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1153603367

title: Arduino Mega
description: <p>The <a href="https://store.arduino.cc/usa/arduino-mega-2560-rev3" target="_blank">Arduino Mega</a> is a microcontroller board based on the ATmega256,which has 54 digital input/output pins (of which 15 can be used as PWM outputs), 16 analogue inputs, 4 UARTs (hardware serial ports), a 16 MHz crystal oscillator, a USB connection, a power jack, an ICSP header, and a reset button.</p>

link: 

title: Blue Snowball iCE condenser microphone
description: <p><a href="http://www.bestbuy.ca/en-ca/product/blue-microphones-blue-microphones-snowball-ice-usb-microphone-78908q-1974/10197278.aspx" >The Snowball Microphone</a> is a USB microphone with HD audio. And with an easy plug and play design, it works well for both PC and Mac computers.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/962370340

title: Carpenter's Square
description: <p>Carpenter's Square is a guide for establishing right angles (90� angles), usually made of metal and in the shape of a right triangle.</p>
link: 

title: Cresent Wrench
description: <p>Cresent Wrench is a tool used to provide grip and mechanical advantage in applying torque to turn objects?usually rotary fasteners, such as nuts and bolts?or keep them from turning.</p>
link: 

title: Desoldering Pump Tool
description: <p>Desoldering pump is a manually-operated device which is used to remove solder from a printed circuit board.The pump is applied to a heated solder connection, then operated to suck the solder away </p>
link: 

title: Drawbot
description: <p>mDrawBot is a 4-in-1 drawing robot kit, it can be assembled into 4 different configuration drawing robots: mScara, mSpider, mEggBot and mCar.This kit consists of Makeblock parts and we also designed a powerful software named mDraw to control these robots. mDrawBot contains over 60 components (and countless screws and nuts), <a href="http://makezine.com/2015/04/09/4-1-drawbot-arduino-compatible-doubles-kickstarter-goal/">here's the picture of all the components.</a></p>
link: 

title: Drawing Tablet with Stylus (Wacom Intuos)
description: <p>A graphic tablet is a computer input device that enables a user to hand-draw images, animations and graphics, with a special pen-like stylus, similar to the way a person draws images with a pencil and paper.<a href="https://us-store.wacom.com/Product/Intuos-Art-Medium">Wacom Intuos medium tablets</a> are a great way to creative a variety of digital artwork.</p>

link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1137547456

title: Dremel Kit
description: <p><a href="https://www.homedepot.ca/en/home/p.3000-tool-kit.1000709434.html">Dremel 300 Series rotary tool</a> offers the precision and control required to complete a wide range of projects--from fine art to home repair.</p>
link: 

title: DSLR Camera
description: <p>This  <a href="http://www.nikonusa.com/en/nikon-products/dslr-cameras/overview.page">Nikon DSLR Camera</a> is a digital camera that combines the optics and the mechanisms of a single-lens reflex camera with a digital imaging sensor, as opposed to photographic film.</p>

link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1117343064

title: Electroluminescent (EL) Wire Starter Kit
description: <p>This kit contains everything you need to get started with <a href="https://abra-electronics.com/opto-illumination/electroluminescent-wire/rtl-11431-el-wire-starter-kit-retail-rtl-11431.html">EL wire</a>.</p>
link: 

title: ESD Bracelet
description: <p>The ESD wrist strap safely channels the static electricity to a proper ground, typically the computer's chassis</p>
link: 

title: ESD Safe Mat
description: <p>ESD Mats can control static, which is primarily used to prevent electronic circuit boards and other electronic products from damage by an electrostatic charge. </p>


link: 

title: Gemma Full Kit
description: <p><a href="https://www.adafruit.com/gemma/">GEMMA</a> is a tiny wearable platform board with a lot of might in a 1" diameter package,which is powered by a Attiny85 and programmable with an Arduino IDE over USB.</p>
link: 

title: Green Screen
description: <p>The green screen is an integral part of the special effects process known formally as ?Chromakey? which is widely used in movie/weather/gaming industry. The function of that is picking up a color and replacing it with a different image for example if a weatherman was wearing a red tie while filming on a red screen, the tie would be replaced as well as the background.</p>
<p><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RsEBhf_oHHc" target="new" rel="noopener noreferrer">Full specifications for the green screen.</a></p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1007705372

title: Hammer, 8 oz. claw
description: <p>A hammer is a tool or device that delivers a blow (a sudden impact) to an object.</p
link: 

title: Heartbeat Sensor
description: <p><a href="https://abra-electronics.com/sensors/sensors-biometrics-en/sens-56-heartbeat-sensor-for-arduino-microcontrollers.html">This heartbeat sensor </a> is compatible with Arduino and other microcontrollers running on 5V logic. It can be used by students, artists, athletes, makers, and game and mobile developers who want to easily incorporate live heart-rate data into their projects.</p>
link: 

title: Heat gun
description: <p>For directed hot air application such as heat-shrink or modifiying 3D prints.</p>
link: 

title: Helping Hands
description: <p>A tool for holding components while soldering.</p>
link: 

title: Hot Air Rework Station
description: <p><a href="https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10706">This hot-air rework station</a> is great for professionals and hobbyists in need of tight temperature tolerances and large air flows. This very powerful unit can be used for multiple applications including standard SMD reflow/repair/removal, thermal IC stress testing, thermoplastic welding, and shrink-wrapping.</p>
link: 

title: HTC Vive VR Headset
description: <p>VR headset provides virtual reality for the wearer, which is widely used with computer games but they are also used in other applications, including simulators and trainers. Our <a href="https://www.vive.com/ca/">Vive Headsets</a> connect to a variety of applications and games through the Steam platform.</p>
link: 

title: Kinect
description: <p>Kinect is a motion sensing input device that can also function as a 3D scanner. Using the <a href="https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/kinect/develop" target="new" rel="noopener noreferrer">Kinect for Windows SDK</a> the sensor can be used to add body tracking to your applications.</p>

link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/911931872

title: Komplete Audio 6 Audio Interface/Soundcard
description: <p>This is the ultimate hardware complement for a variety of home studio and DJ applications.This equipment contains The KOMPLETE AUDIO 6 audio interface, A USB 2.0 cable and the serial number for downloading driver software <a href="https://www.native-instruments.com/en/products/komplete/audio-interfaces/komplete-audio-6/">Full specificaltions</a></p>
link: 

title: Leap Motion Controller
description: <p><a href="https://www.leapmotion.com/">Leap Motion controller</a> is hand tracking device. For example, when configured properly with a compatible application the users hand gestures can replace the Vive controllers.</p>
link: 

title: LED Display (64 x 32 x 6 mm)
description: <p>This <a href="https://www.adafruit.com/product/2277">LED Matrix</a> is normally used to make video walls,which has 2048 bright RGB LEDs arranged in a 64x32 grid on the front.</p>
link: 

title: Lego Mindstorms EV3 Kit
description: <p><a href="https://www.lego.com/en-us/mindstorms/products/mindstorms-ev3-31313">LEGO MINDSTORMS EV3</a> makes building, programming and commanding your own LEGO robots smarter, faster, and more fun than ever.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/865510830

title: Lighting Kit
description: <p>The <a href="http://www.litepanels.com/en-US/Shop/products/led-light-kits-caliber-3-light-kit">Caliber LED Fresnel 3-Light Kit (Litepanels)</a> includes 3 Caliber LED Fresnel lights. Each light comes with a tabletop tripod. Accessories: diffusion pack available upon request, tripod available separately. </p>

link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1153672070

title: LiPo Rechargeable Battery
description: <p><a href="https://www.adafruit.com/product/1317"> Lithium Ion polymer (also known as 'lipo' or 'lipoly') batteries </a> are thin, light and powerful. The output ranges from 4.2V when completely charged to 3.7V.</p>
link: 

title: LittleBits: KORG Synth Kit
description: <p><a href="https://shop.littlebits.cc/products/synth-kit" >LittleBits Synth Kit</a> is a modular analogue synthesizer which has demystified a traditional analogue synthesizer, making it super easy for novices and experts alike to create music.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/881345685

title: Mac Workstation Complete
description: <p>This <a href="https://support.apple.com/kb/SP731?locale=en_US">27-inch iMac</a> has a 5K Retina display and a 4.0GHZ Quand-core Intel i7 processor with AMD Radeon R9 M390 graphics card with 2GB GDDR5.  </p>
link: 

title: Magnifying Visor with Lamp
description: <p>This <a href="https://abra-electronics.com/science/physics-en/optics-magnifiers/ma-016-lighted-visor-magnifier-ma-016.html">illuminated  LED Head Magnifier</a> is improves visibility and reduces eye strain doing precise electronic or soldering work.</p>
link: 

title: Micro Screwdriver Set
description: <p>Contains many of the screwdrivers necessairy for opening electronic devices.</p>
link: 

title: Mini Clamp
description: <p>Be safe! Clamp down your project while you file, cut or drill into it.</p>
link: 

title: Mini projector (AAXA pico projector)
description: <p>This small and highly portable HD projector boasts 400 Lumens and weights only 600 grams.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1141770915

title: Moog Werkstatt-01 Analog Synthesizer Moogfest 2014 Kit
description: <p><a href="https://www.bhphotovideo.com/c/product/1076886-REG/moog_werkstatt_01_moogfest_2014_kit.html">Moogfest 2014 Kit</a> is a patchable and compact, one oscillator analog synthesizer. Any user can quickly build an analogue synthesizer based on classic Moog circuits, and if desired, study the analoueg circuits. Werkstatt was created to be an educational tool, but it is also a formidable, compact analogue synthesizer from Moog.</p>

.
link: 

title: Motor party add-on pack for Arduino
description: <p><a href="https://www.adafruit.com/product/171">Motor party add-on pack for Arduino</a>�is a package of motor accessories which is easy to connect with Arduino, Adafruit motor shield v2 for Arduino,6 Volt DC hobby motor, small stepper motor, standard size servo and micro size servo.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1153682188

title: Multimeter
description: <p>A multimeter is an electronic measuring instrument that combines several measurement functions in one unit which has three parts: display, selection knob and ports.</p>
link: 

title: Neopixels
description: <p>These small RGB LEDs have many smart features: they are programamble, chainable and easily sew onto wearable projects.</p>
link: 

title: Neopixels Strips
description: <p><a href="https://www.adafruit.com/product/2562">NeoPixel strips</a> have 30 digitally-addressable pixel LEDs per meter. This is a great starting point for many <a href="https://learn.adafruit.com/digital-led-strip/project-ideas?embeds=allow"> projects</a>. </p>
link: 

title: Oscilloscope
description: <p>An oscilloscope is a type of electronic test instrument that allows observation of constantly varying signal voltages, usually as a two-dimensional plot of one or more signals as a function of time. Other signals (such as sound or vibration) can be converted to voltages and displayed. The model we have is the <a href="https://www.arrow.com/en/products/ds1102e/rigol-technologies-inc?gclid=CjwKCAjw_dTMBRBHEiwApIzn_Lxv2YOxeoo6wfPhvf9PVCqCG-SImiXka_3nhxZRmLj1bn8CEE4vFhoCFOoQAvD_BwE">Rigol DS1102E</a>.</p>
link: 

title: Panavise
description: <p>Perfect for worksing on smaller PCBs.</p>
link: 

title: Power Drill, Cordless
description: <p>Compact cordless <a href="https://www.lowes.ca/products/view.aspx?sku=12288774">Bosch 18-Volt drill</a> with rechargeable batteries.</p>
link: 

title: Powerswitch tail 2 power relay
description: <p>The <a href="https://www.adafruit.com/product/268"> Power Switch Tail II </a> saves you the trouble of slicing apart power cords to control electrical devices with an Arduino or Raspberry Pi. </p>
link: 

title: Prusa i3 MK3S
description: <p><a href="http://shop.prusa3d.com/en/3d-printers/59-original-prusa-i3-mk2-kit.html">Prusa i3 MK2S</a> is 3D Printer with heated bed, auto-calibration and a build volume of 25 x 21 x 20 cm.</p>
link: 

title: Raspberry Pi Kit
description: <p><a href="https://www.sparkfun.com/products/13826">The Raspberry Pi 3 Kit</a> is a great way to gain a solid introduction to the small, credit-card sized computer. With this kit you will be able to get your Raspberry Pi 3 connected through SparkFun Pi Wedge to a breadboard and, by utilizing the Pi?s 40-pin GPIO, control pushbuttons, LEDs, and a host of user created circuits.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/956950776

title: Raspberry Pi Robotics Kit
description: <p><a href="https://www.raspberrypistarterkits.com/products/best-raspberry-pi-robot-kits/">Raspberry Pi Robot Kits</a> for beginners are the good project starter kits for the electronics enthusiasts and Raspberry Pi starters.</p>
link: 

title: Safety glasses
description: <p>Safety Goggles (Safety Glasses USA) can provide the extra protection from liquid splash, acid vapours, airborne dust and impact hazards.</p>
link: 

title: Screwdrivers, Standard Sizes
description: <p>Screwdriver is a tool, manual or powered, for turning (driving or removing) screws.</p>
link: 

title: Servo Standard
description: <p>Servos (also RC servos) are small, cheap, mass-produced servomotors or other actuators used for radio control and small-scale robotics</p>



link: 

title: Sewing Machine
description: <p>Our simple-to-use <a href="https://www.singer.com/en-ca/heavy-duty-4423-sewing-machine">Singer sewing machine</a> will get the job done!</p> 
link: 

title: Silhouette Cameo Digital Die Cutter
description: <p>The  <a href="https://www.silhouetteamerica.com/shop/machines/cameo">Silhouette Cameo</a> is digital die cutting machine, which make it easy to cut shapes, pictures, and text out of card stock, vinyl, foam, and more.</p>
link: 

title: Small Hacksaw
description: <p>Hacksaw is a fine-toothed saw, originally and principally made for cutting metal.</p>
link: 

title: Smoke Absorber
description: <p><a href="http://www.aventools.com/product/benchtop-smoke-absorber" >Smoke Absorber</a> is a air filter fan.</p>

link: 

title: Solder
description: <p>Solder is a fusible metal alloy used to create a permanent bond between metal workpieces.</p>
link: 

title: Soldering Electronics Kit
description: <p> <a href="https://www.adafruit.com/product/13">This kit</a> includes a soldering iron, diagonal cutters, multimeter, solder, solder iron stand and more. Some components are stored separately in the Sandbox.</p>
link: 

title: Sony PlayStation VR
description: <p>The <a href="https://www.newegg.ca/Product/Product.aspx?Item=9SIACBD5312201&amp;nm_mc=KNC-GoogleAdwordsCAMKPL-PC&amp;cm_mmc=KNC-GoogleAdwordsCAMKPL-PC-_-pla-_-VR+Headsets-_-9SIACBD5312201&amp;gclid=CjwKCAjw_dTMBRBHEiwApIzn_MA5OajZPV7K1zWNHV59xzGUif4XRKTJkNx-xVAh1bDoMv5159qLDxoCybQQAvD_BwE">Sony PlayStation VR</a> is a removable virtual reality headset that includes PS4 Pro, two controllers, VR headset, HDMI cable, USB cable, power cable, processor unit, 2-pin power cable and a VR headset connection cable.</p>

link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/986661163

title: Sony Studio Headphones
description: <p> <a href="https://www.bhphotovideo.com/c/product/358337-REG/Sony_MDRV6_MDR_V6_Closed_Back.html">Sony's Studio Monitor</a> headphones are one of the most popular model lines among professional audio engineers. This product is popular for audio editing, live sound and broadcast applications.</p>

link: 

title: Sparkfun Inventor's Kit
description: <p><a href="https://www.sparkfun.com/products/retired/12001">SparkFun Inventor?s Kit (SIK)</a> is a great way to get started with programming and hardware interaction with the Arduino programming language, which includes red-board, USB cable, servo, ICD, buttons, wires, resistors, LEDs, varister, transistors, piezo, diodes, motors and guide book.</p>

link: 
https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1153742969

title: Tiny AVR Programmer
description: <p>The Tiny AVR Programmer plugs directly into USB port and provides a programming socket for the ATTiny45 and 85. This programmer involves a breadboard, lots of jumper wires and a hardware programmer, but David Mellis over at MIT Media Lab has simplified the process by laying out this handy  <a href="https://www.sparkfun.com/products/11801"> USB programmer </a></p>
link: 

title: Tripod
description: <p>Tripods are used to stabilize and elevate a camera, a flash unit, or other photographic equipment.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/869458801

title: Vacuum Pickup Tool
description: <p>This tool provides a precision ultra quiet vacuum pump and a large selection of ESD safe tips for handling a variety of parts for electronic assembly requirements. Typical applications include circuit die, SMT assembly, substrates and flat components.</p>
link: 

title: Various hand tools
description: <p>A level, square, flat file, and measuring tape are all available for basic construction needs.</p>
link: 

title: Wii U
description: <p><a href="https://www.nintendo.com/wiiu/what-is-wiiu" >Wii U</a> is a home video game console developed by Nintendo, and the successor to the Wii.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/949701584

title: Windows Workstation
description: <p>DELL XPS Workstation has Intel? i7 Quad Core ? processor and high-performance graphics, which have the speed and power for video editing, video playback and gaming<a href="http://www.dell.com/en-ca/shop/productdetails/xps-8920-desktop/dxps8920_bt_s146e?s=dhs&amp;oc=dxps8920_bt_s146e&amp;cid=3852&amp;st=&amp;pdv=c&amp;lid=5736660&amp;VEN1=sZAn14QJb,98275113197,901mtv7630,c,&amp;VEN2=,&amp;dgc=st&amp;dgseg=dhs&amp;acd=1230881379501410&amp;VEN3=873503590847034440">Full specificaltions</a></p>
link: 

title: Wire Strippers
description: <p>Wire stripper is a small, hand-held device used to strip the electrical insulation from electric wires.</p>
link: 

title: Wire Strippers Crimping Tool
description: <p>These tools are used to wire stripping and wire crimping work</p>
link: 

title: XBee
description: <p><a href="https://www.sparkfun.com/products/11697">XBee modules</a> are designed to communicate using a specific protocol, although certain devices can be made to use a different protocol by changing the firmware. Ideal for wireless communication between Arduinos.</p>
link: https://concordiauniversity.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1153673759

title: Circular Knitting Machine
description: <p>Custom build by the Sandbox team. Knits yarn into tubes that can be converted into socks.</p>
link: 

title: Iron
description: <p>Essential wrinkle remover for fiber arts projects.</p>
link: 

title: Face Tracker
description: 
link: 

title: Valve Index
description: <p>VR system compatible with a variety of games and applications. Steam VR 2.0 base stations.</p>
link: 

title: Large Touch Screen 
description: 
link: 

title: Vive position trackers 2.0
description: <p>Track movement to objects from the real world into VR.</p>
link: 

title: Electronics parts - various
description: <p>Resistors, wires, LEDs, light sensors, batteries, breadboard, etc.</p>
link: 

title: Brain Computer Interface
description: <p>The ultracortex Mark IV EEG headset can sample 16 channels.</p>
link: 

The Special Collections Librarian at Concordia University can be reached at spec-coll@concordia.ca. Alex Guindon, who is an Associate Librarian, serves as the Geospatial and Data Services Librarian and the Geography Subject Librarian, and can be contacted at alex.guindon@concordia.ca. For Library Reserves, the contact email is library.reserves@concordia.ca. The User Rights Librarian can be reached at lib-usagerights@concordia.ca, and copyright inquiries can be directed to copyright.questions@concordia.ca.

Krista Alexander is an Associate Librarian responsible for Applied Human Sciences, Biochemistry/Chemistry, Mathematics & Statistics, and Physics, and can be contacted at Krista.Alexander@concordia.ca. Anibal Arellano is a Technology Services Analyst and can be reached at Anibal.Arellano@concordia.ca. Francisco Berrizbeitia, a Developer, can be contacted at Francisco.Berrizbeitia@concordia.ca. Kathleen Botter, a Senior Librarian and Systems Librarian, is available at Kathleen.Botter@concordia.ca. Susie Breier is an Associate Librarian responsible for Sociology, Anthropology, Sexuality Studies, and Women’s Studies, and can be reached at Susie.Breier@concordia.ca.

Hélène Brousseau is an Assistant Librarian covering Art History, Design and Computational Arts, Studio Arts, Digital Media and Visual Resources, Cinema, Dance and Music, and Theatre, and can be contacted at Helene.Brousseau@concordia.ca. The University Librarian, Amy Buckland, can be reached at university.librarian@concordia.ca. Christopher Carr, an Associate Librarian responsible for Special Materials Cataloguing (currently on leave), can be contacted at Christopher.Carr@concordia.ca. Pamela Carson, an Associate Librarian and Web Services Librarian (currently on leave), can be reached at Pamela.Carson@concordia.ca.

Joshua Chalifour is an Associate Librarian and the Digital Scholarship Librarian, as well as the Journalism & Communication Studies Subject Librarian, and can be contacted at Joshua.Chalifour@concordia.ca. Dr. Olivier Charbonneau, a Senior Librarian and Interim Head of Vanier Library, also serves as the Management and Marketing Subject Librarian, and can be reached at O.Charbonneau@concordia.ca. David Clark, the Immersive Technology Lead, can be contacted at David.Clark@concordia.ca. Emma Clarke, an Assistant Librarian with a Limited Term Appointment, serves as the Electronic Resources Coordinator and can be reached at Emma.Clarke@concordia.ca.

Dianne Cmor, a Senior Librarian and Associate University Librarian for Teaching & Learning, can be reached at Dianne.Cmor@concordia.ca. Larry Deck, an Associate Librarian and Systems Librarian, can be contacted at Larry.Deck@concordia.ca. Natalia Diaz is an Assistant Librarian with a Limited Term Appointment, serving as the Collections Librarian and Archivist, and can be reached at Natalia.Diaz@concordia.ca. Jean-Marc Edwards, the Associate University Librarian for Information Systems and Technology, can be contacted at Jean-Marc.Edwards@concordia.ca. Laurent Evrin, the Manager of Information Systems & Technology, can be reached at Laurent.Evrin@concordia.ca.

Megan Fitzgibbons is the Acting Associate University Librarian for Research & Graduate Studies and can be contacted at Megan.Fitzgibbons@concordia.ca. Éthel Gamache, an Associate Librarian, is responsible for Religions and Cultures, Theological Studies, Études françaises, Philosophy, Classics, Modern Languages, and Linguistics, and can be reached at Ethel.Gamache@concordia.ca. Meredith Giffin, an Associate Librarian and Collections Coordinator, can be contacted at Meredith.Giffin@concordia.ca. Michael Groenendyk, an Associate Librarian, serves as the Digital Scholarship Librarian and covers Accountancy, Supply Chain Management, Business Technology Management, MBA, EMBA, Finance, and Economics, and can be reached at Michael.Groenendyk@concordia.ca.

Katharine Hall, an Associate Librarian, is responsible for Biology, Health, and Kinesiology & Applied Physiology, and can be contacted at Katharine.Hall@concordia.ca. Andréa Harland, an Associate Librarian and the Access & Delivery Services Librarian, can be reached at Andrea.Harland@concordia.ca. Jim Harris, a Systems Analyst, can be contacted at Jim.Harris@concordia.ca. Dr. Rachel Harris, an Associate Librarian and the Scholarly Publishing Librarian, can be reached at Rachel.Harris@concordia.ca. Laura Ivan, an Associate Librarian and Head of Information Services, can be contacted at Laura.Ivan@concordia.ca.

Karen Jensen, an Associate Librarian and the Head of Cataloguing and Collection Maintenance, can be reached at Karen.Jensen@concordia.ca. Rajiv Johal, an Associate Librarian and the Associate University Librarian for Research & Graduate Studies (currently on leave), can be contacted at Rajiv.Johal@concordia.ca. Michelle Lake, an Associate Librarian, serves as the Government Publications Librarian and is responsible for Political Science, the School of Community & Public Affairs, and First Peoples Studies, and can be reached at Michelle.Lake@concordia.ca. Sarah Lake, an Associate Librarian and Digital Preservation Librarian, can be contacted at Sarah.Lake@concordia.ca.

John Latour, an Associate Librarian and the Teaching & Research Librarian for Fine Arts (currently on leave), can be reached at John.Latour@concordia.ca. Chloe Lei, an Associate Librarian and the Teaching & Research Librarian for Engineering & Computer Science, can be contacted at Chloe.Lei@concordia.ca. Aeron MacHattie, an Assistant Librarian with a Limited Term Appointment, serves as the Teaching & Research Librarian for English, Irish Studies, and History, and can be reached at Aeron.MacHattie@concordia.ca. Sandra Margolian, the Public Art Lead, can be contacted at s.margolian@concordia.ca.

Alexandra Mills, an Associate Librarian and the Head of Special Collections & Archives, can be reached at Alexandra.Mills@concordia.ca. Tomasz Neugebauer, a Senior Librarian and the Digital Projects & Systems Development Librarian, can be contacted at Tomasz.Neugebauer@concordia.ca. Pat Riva, a Senior Librarian and the Associate University Librarian for Collection Services, can be reached at Pat.Riva@concordia.ca. Melissa Rivosecchi, an Associate Librarian and the Teaching & Research Librarian for Social Sciences, Education and Applied Linguistics/TESL, Art Education and Creative Arts Therapies, and Psychology, can be contacted at Melissa.Rivosecchi@concordia.ca.

Christine Smith, an Associate Librarian and the Head of Acquisitions & Serials, can be reached at Christine.Smith@concordia.ca. Jasia Stuart, the Coordinator of Digital Services, can be contacted at Jasia.Stuart@concordia.ca. Kumiko Vézina, a Senior Librarian and the Electronic Resources Coordinator (currently on leave), can be reached at Kumiko.Vezina@concordia.ca. Jared Wiercinski, a Senior Librarian (currently on leave), can be contacted at Jared.Wiercinski@concordia.ca. Ellen Wright, an Assistant Librarian with a Limited Term Appointment, serves as the Media Cataloguing Librarian and can be reached at ellen.wright@concordia.ca.

For Electronic Issues Support, the contact email is lib-eissues@concordia.ca.